# Module 6: Hybrid MDM with Configuration Manager and Intune
# Lab: Configuring hybrid MDM
  
### Scenario
  
 Your MDM requirements have expanded and you now want to integrate Intune with Configuration Manager in a hybrid scenario. You must sign up for an Intune subscription and then integrate your Configuration Manager environment. You also must add a Terms and Conditions policy to ensure users agree to Adatum IT terms.


### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Validate and configure prerequisites for Configuration Manager and Intune integration.

- Add an Intune subscription to Configuration Manager.

- Add a terms and conditions policy for MDM users.

>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Intune and other cloud services referenced in the course. Microsoft Learning updated the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup
  
 Estimated time: 60 minutes

Virtual machines:  **20703-2A-LON-DC1-A** and **20703-2A-LON-CFG-A**

 User name:  **Adatum\Administrator**

 Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

 For this lab, you will use the available virtual machine (VM) environment. Before you begin the lab, you must complete the following steps:

1. On the host computer, start  **Hyper-V Manager**.

2. In  **Hyper-V Manager**, click  **20703-2A-LON-DC1-A**, and then in the  **Actions** pane, click **Start**.

3. In the  **Actions** pane, click **Connect**. Wait until the VM starts. 

4. Sign in by using the following credentials: 

  - User name:  **Administrator**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

  - Domain:  **Adatum**

5. Repeat steps 2 through 4 for  **20703-2A-LON-CFG-A**.


  **For on-premises virtual machine environments only:** Start **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, which is used to provide Internet access for the VMs.

 To complete this lab successfully, you must have completed  _Module 1: Lab A: Preparing for cloud integration_ and _Module 4: Lab A: Preparing Office 365 for application deployment_.


## Exercise 1: Validating and configuring prerequisites for Configuration Manager and Intune integration
  
### Scenario
  
 Your organization is ready to start testing hybrid MDM by using Configuration Manager and Intune. You have already subscribed to Azure and will now add an Intune subscription to allow for MDM features. You also must verify that the service connection point is in place and create a new user collection named  **Adatum MDM Users**. Initially, the new collection will only contain Adam Hobbs, Abbi Skinner, and Allan Yoo. You plan to add other uses once you validate that the MDM environment works as expected.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Activate the EMS free trial

2. Assign an EMS license to Adam Hobbs

3. Create an MDM collection and verify the service connection point configuration



#### Task 1: Activate the EMS free trial
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, open  **Internet Explorer** and browse to **https://portal.azure.com**.

2. Sign in with your Microsoft account as configured in Module 1.

3. From the  **Azure Active Directory** node, click **Licenses**, and then activate the  **Enterprise Mobility Suite free trial**. 

4. From the  **Microsoft Azure** menu, search for Intune, and then set the node as a favorite. It will then be available on the menu.

5. Browse through the various Intune features, but do not make any changes. 



#### Task 2: Assign an EMS license to Adam Hobbs
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, in the navigation pane, click  **Azure Active Directory**.

2. On the directory page, under  **MANAGE**, click  **Users and groups**.

3. On the  **Users and groups** page, click **All users**.

4. In the  **All users** list, type Adam, and when Adam Hobbs appears in the filter, double-click the account.

5. On the account properties page, click  **Licenses**.

6. Click  **Assign**.

7. Under  **Assign license**, click  **Products**.

8. On the  **Products** pane, select **Enterprise Mobility + Security**, and then click  **Select**.

9. Click  **Assign**.

10. Close  **Internet Explorer**.



#### Task 3: Create an MDM collection and verify the service connection point configuration
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, on the task bar, click  **Configuration Manager Console.**

2. In the  **Configuration Manager** console, click the **Assets and Compliance** workspace.

3. In the navigation pane, click  **Users**. Verify that users have been discovered from the Adatum domain.

4. Create a new user collection with the following settings:

  -  **Name**: Adatum MDM Users

  -  **Limiting Collection**: All Users

  -  **Members**: Abbi Skinner, Adam Hobbs, Allan Yoo, Ana Cantrell

5. In the navigation pane, click  **User Collections**.

6. In the results pane, double-click  **Adatum MDM Users**. Verify the members of the collection.

7. In the  **Configuration Manager** console, click the **Administration** workspace.

8. In the navigation pane, expand  **Site Configuration**, and then click  **Servers and Site System Roles**.

9. In the results pane, select  **\\\LON-CFG.Adatum.com**. Verify that  **LON-CFG** has the service connection point installed. This was installed during the installation of the site server. Also verify that it is currently configured as **Online, persistent connection**. If the Service connection point is configured as Offline, change the selection as indicated to Online.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have validated and configured prerequisites needed for Configuration Manager and Intune integration.


## Exercise 2: Adding the Intune subscription to Configuration Manager
  
### Scenario
  
 You have verified and configured all prerequisites needed to support the Intune integration. You now must add the Intune subscription to Configuration Manager. You will assign the Adatum MDM Users collection to the subscription. You will also configure Ana Cantrell as a device enrollment manager so that she can enroll many shared corporate-owned devices.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Adding the Microsoft Intune Subscription to Configuration Manager

2. Configuring the Device Enrollment Manager



#### Task 1: Adding the Microsoft Intune Subscription to Configuration Manager
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, on the task bar, click  **Configuration Manager Console**. 

2. In the  **Configuration Manager** console, click the **Administration** workspace.

3. In the navigation pane, expand  **Cloud Services**, and then click  **Microsoft Intune Subscriptions**.

4. In the ribbon, click  **Add Microsoft Intune Subscription**. The  **Create Microsoft Intune Subscription Wizard** starts.

5. In the  **Create Microsoft Intune Subscription Wizard**, on the  **Introduction** page, read the **Getting started information**, and then click  **Next**. 

6. On the  **Subscription** page, click **Sign In**. The  **Microsoft Intune credentials** page opens.

7. In the  **Email or phone** field, type **Adam@&lt;domain&gt;.onmicrosoft.com**.

8. In the  **Password** field, enter the password **Pa55w.rd**, and then click  **Sign in**.

9. On the  **Subscription** page, click **Next**.

10. On the  **General** page, configure the following:

  -  **Collection**: Adatum MDM Users

  -  **Company Name**: Adatum Corporation

  -  **Color scheme for company portal**: Choose a color of your choice.

  -  **Configuration Manager site code**: S01

11. On the  **Company Contact Information** page fill in the following, and then click **Next**:

  - IT department contact name:  **Adam Hobbs**

  - IT department phone number:  **555-555-2222**

  - IT department email address:  **Adam@adatum.com**

12. On the  **Company Logo** page, click **Next**.

13. On the  **Device Enrollment Manager** page, click **Next**.

14. Complete the wizard, and then click  **Close**.



#### Task 2: Configuring the Device Enrollment Manager
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, in the  **Configuration Manager** console, click the **Administration** workspace.

2. In the navigation pane, expand  **Cloud Services**, and then click  **Microsoft Intune Subscriptions**.

3. In the details pane, select  **Microsoft Intune Subscription**, and then on the ribbon click  **Properties**.

4. On the  **Device Enrollment Manager** tab add **Ana Cantrell** as a device enrollment manager.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have added the Intune subscription to Configuration Manager.


## Exercise 3: Adding terms and conditions for MDM users
  
### Scenario
  
 You need to be sure that all users agree to the terms and conditions for connecting their devices to Adatum Corporation's MDM environment. You will configure a Terms and Conditions policy and deploy it to the Adatum MDM users collection. 

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Add a Terms and Conditions policy

2. Deploy the Terms and Conditions policy

3. Prepare for the next module



#### Task 1: Add a Terms and Conditions policy
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, in the  **Configuration Manager** console, click the **Assets and Compliance** workspace.

2. In the navigation pane, expand  **Compliance Settings**, and then click  **Terms and Conditions**.

3. In the ribbon, click  **Create Terms and Conditions**. The  **Create Terms and Conditions Wizard** starts.

4. Create a  **Terms and Conditions** policy with the following:

  -  **Name**: Adatum MDM Terms and Conditions

  -  **Title**: Adatum Corporation Terms and Conditions

  -  **Text for terms**: By Joining the Adatum Corporation's MDM infrastructure you agree to accept all policy settings as assigned by Adatum IT. 

  -  **Text to explain what it means if the user accepts**: I accept the terms as outlined by Adatum IT



#### Task 2: Deploy the Terms and Conditions policy
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, in the  **Configuration Manager** console, click the **Assets and Compliance** workspace.

2. In the navigation pane, expand  **Compliance Settings**, and then click  **Terms and Conditions**.

3. In the results pane, select  **Adatum MDM Terms and Conditions**.

4. In the ribbon, click  **Deploy**. The  **Deploy Terms and Conditions** dialog box opens.

5. Deploy the  **Adatum MDM Terms and Conditions** policy to the **Adatum MDM Users** collection.

6. After you deploy the policy, notice that the Deploy column now shows the word "True," which indicates the policy has been deployed.

7. Click the  **Deployments** tab and verify that you have deployed the policy to the **Adatum MDM Users** collection.

8. Close the  **Configuration Manager** console.



#### Task 3: Prepare for the next module
  
- At the end of the lab, shut down the VMs. However, do not revert the VMs as you will need the current state for later modules.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have added and deployed a Terms and Conditions policy.



## 
  
**Question** 
You decide to allow users to enroll up to three devices each. Where would you go to configure this setting?

**Question** 
During the subscription configuration, you need to specify a collection. What is the purpose of this collection?



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  