# Module 5: Mobile device management by using Configuration Manager
# Lab: Managing mobile devices by using the Exchange Server connector
  
### Scenario
  
 Adatum Corporation has traditionally used Exchange Server on-premises and Exchange ActiveSync to provide mobile access to email. You decide to implement the Exchange Server connector to integrate the mobile devices into the Configuration Manager management scope. You also need to ensure that users can only use mobile devices that meet your policy requirements, so you will configure conditional access in Configuration Manager.


### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you should be able to:

- Configure permissions for Exchange integration.

- Install and configure the Exchange Server connector.

- Manage mobile devices using Configuration Manager and Exchange.

>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Intune and other cloud services referenced in the course. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup
  
 Estimated time: 30 minutes

Virtual machines:  **20703-2A-LON-DC1-B**,  **20703-2A-LON-CFG-B**, and  **20703-2A-LON-EXCH1-B**

 User name:  **Adatum\Administrator**

 Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

 For this lab, you will use the available virtual machine environment. Before you begin the lab, complete the following steps:

1. On the host computer, start  **Hyper-V Manager**.

2. In  **Hyper-V Manager**, click  **20703-2A-LON-DC1-B**, and then in the  **Actions** pane, click **Start**.

3. In the  **Actions** pane, click **Connect**. Wait until the virtual machine starts. 

4. Sign in with the following credentials: 

  - User name:  **Administrator**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

  - Domain:  **Adatum**

5. Repeat steps 2 through 4 for  **20703-2A-LON-CFG-B** and **20703-2A-LON-EXCH1-B**.



## Exercise 1: Configure permissions for Exchange integration
  
### Scenario
  
 Before you create the Exchange Server connector, the service account that the connector uses must be configured as an Exchange administrator. For users to be configured as an Exchange administrator, they must have a mailbox. The minimum roles required for the Exchange Server connector service account are Recipient Management, View-Only Organization Management, and Server Management.

The main task for this exercise is as follows:

- Create an Exchange Server connector account



#### Task 1: Create an Exchange Server connector account
  
1. On  **LON-EXCH1**, on the desktop, double-click  **Exchange Administrative Center**.

2. Sign in to the  **Exchange Admin Center** by using the following credentials:

  -  **Adatum\Administrator**

  -  **Pa55w.rd**

3. In the  **recipients** page, click **mailboxes**, click the plus ( **+**) icon, and then click  **User mailbox**.

4. Complete the  **User Mailbox - Internet Explorer** dialog box with the following information, and then click **Save**:

  - Alias:  **CFGEXCHCONN**

  -  **New user**
First name:  **CFGEXCHCONN**

Display name:  **CFGEXCHCONN**

Name:  **CFGEXCHCONN**

User logon name:  **CFGEXCHCONN**

New password and Confirm password:  **Pa55w.rd**

5. In the navigation pane, click  **permissions**.

6. Click  **Recipient Management**, and then click the  **Edit** (pencil) icon.

7. In the  **Recipient Management** dialog box, in the **Members** area, click the plus ( **+**) icon.

8. Select  **CFGEXCHCONN**, click  **add**, and then click  **OK**.

9. In the Recipient Management dialog box, click  **Save**.

10. Repeat steps 6 through 9 for the  **Server Management** and **View-Only Organization Management** groups.

11. Close the  **Exchange admin center**.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully configured permissions for Exchange Server integration with Configuration Manager.


## Exercise 2: Configuring the Exchange Server connector
  
### Scenario
  
 After configuring the Exchange Server connector service account, you have to configure the Exchange Server connector itself. When configuring the Exchange Server connector, you can configure policy during the initial configuration, or any time after you create the Exchange Server connector.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Configure the Exchange Server Connector

2. Verify the Exchange Server Connector



#### Task 1: Configure the Exchange Server Connector
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, on the taskbar, click the  **Configuration Manager** icon.

2. In the  **Configuration Manager** console, click the **Administration** workspace, expand the **Hierarchy Configuration** folder, and then click **Exchange Server Connectors**.

3. On the ribbon, click  **Add Exchange Server**.

4. In the  **Add Exchange Server Wizard**, on the  **General** page, ensure that **On-premises Exchange Server** is selected and then in the **Server address (URL)** text box, type **http://LON-EXCH1.adatum.com**, and then click  **Next**.

5. On the  **Account** page, ensure that the **Specify the account to connect to the Exchange Server** option is selected.

6. Click  **Set**, and then click  **New Account**.

7. Complete the  **Windows User Account** dialog box by using the following information, and then click **OK**:

  - User name:  **ADATUM\CFGEXCHCONN**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

  - Confirm password:  **Pa55w.rd**

8. On the  **Account** page, under **Conditional Access Email Notification Account**, click  **Set**, and then click  **New Account**.

9. Complete the  **Windows Live ID Account** dialog box by using the following information, and then click **OK**:

  - User name:  **Administrator@adatum.com**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

  - Confirm password:  **Pa55w.rd**

10. On the  **Account** page, click **Next**.

11. On the  **Discovery** page, complete the following settings, and then click **Next**:

  - Delta synchronization interval (minutes):  **120 minutes**

  - Ignore mobile devices that are inactive for more than (days):  **365**

12. On the  **Settings** page, click **General**, and then click  **Edit**. 

13. On the  **General Settings** page, set **Internet sharing from mobile devices** to **Prohibited**, and then click  **OK**.

14. On the  **Settings** page, click **Password**, and then click  **Edit**. 

15. In the  **Password Settings** dialog box, set the **Require password settings on mobile devices** to **Required**. Select and then set the  **password expiration in days** to **42**, set the  **idle time in minutes before mobile device is locked** to **3**, and then click  **OK**.

16. On the  **Settings** page, click **E-mail Management**, and then click  **Edit**. 

17. In the  **E-mail Management Settings** dialog box, set **POP and IMAP e-mail** to **Prohibited**, and then click  **OK**.

18. On the  **Settings** page, click **Security**, and then click  **Edit**.

19. In the  **Security Settings** dialog box, set **Camera** to **Prohibited**, and then click  **OK**.

20. On the  **Settings** page, click **Applications**, and then click  **Edit**.

21. In the  **Applications Settings** dialog box, set **Unsigned File installation** to **Allowed**, and then click  **OK**.

22. On the  **Settings** page, click **Next**.

23. Review the summary information, and then click  **Next**.

24. On the  **Completion** page, click **Close**.

25. Right-click the newly created Exchange Server connector, and then click  **Synchronize Now**. 

26. At the  **Configuration Manager** prompt, click **OK**.

27. Right-click the newly created Exchange Server connector, and then click  **Properties**.

28. Take note of the settings that have been configured. Also notice that you can configure Access rules to control the Device Family and\or Device model to be allowed access to Exchange ActiveSync.

29. Click  **Cancel**.



#### Task 2: Verify the Exchange Server Connector
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, in the  **Configuration Manager** console, click the **Monitoring** workspace.

2. Expand  **System Status**, and then click  **Component Status**.

3. Check the status of the  **SMS_EXCHANGE_CONNECTOR**, and verify that the status displays as  **OK**.

4. Right-click the  **SMS_EXCHANGE_CONNECTOR**, point to show messages, and then click  **All**.

5. In the  **Status Messages: Set Viewing Period** dialog box, click **OK**.

6. Look for the status message with  **Message ID 8834**, which indicates that synchronization was successful.

7. Close the  **Configuration Manager Status Message Viewer**.

8. On the task bar, click  **File Manager**.

9. Browse to  **C:\Program Files\Microsoft Configuration Manager\Logs**.

10. Double-click the  **SiteComp.log** file.

11. Use the  **Find** option to review all the events entries containing the word **Exchange**.

12. Close the  **Configuration Manager Trace Log Tool**.

13. Double-click the  **EasDisc.log** file.

14. Review the entries.

15. Close the  **Configuration Manager Trace Log Tool**.

16. Close  **File Explorer**.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured the Exchange Server Connector.


## Exercise 3: Manage Mobile Devices using Configuration Manager
  
### Scenario
  
 After Configuration Manager has synchronized with the Exchange Server, you can then manage the mobile devices that have been discovered. In this exercise, you will explore management tasks for mobile devices synchronized from Exchange.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Manage mobile devices in Configuration Manager

2. Prepare for the next module



#### Task 1: Manage mobile devices in Configuration Manager
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, in the  **Configuration Manager** console, click the **Assets and Compliance** workspace.

2. Click the  **Device Collections** node.

3. Right-click the  **All Mobile Devices** collection and then click **Update Membership**. Click  **Yes** at the prompt.

4. Refresh the  **All Mobile Devices** node.

5. Double-click  **All Mobile Devices**.

6. Review the discovered mobile devices. There should be four devices discovered.
>  **Note:** If the **All Mobile Devices** collection does not update, Perform steps 2-4 for the **All Systems** collection first. Then repeat steps 2-4 for the **All Mobile Devices** collection.


7. Right-click each device and verify management options on the menu, such as  **Retire/Wipe**, and  **Exchange Active Sync Access**.



#### Task 2: Prepare for the next module
  
- At the end of the lab, shut down the virtual machines. However, do not revert the virtual machines as you will need the current state for later modules.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have managed mobile devices in Configuration Manager synchronized from the Exchange Server.



## 
  
**Question** 
You manage mobile devices by using the Exchange Server connector. Which management tasks can you perform on synchronized devices? (Choose all that apply)

Retire/Wipe

Deploy applications

Install the Configuration Manager client

Allow/Block Exchange ActiveSync Access

Disable the camera

**Question** 
You need to be sure that any mobile devices that have not been active for 30 days are not synchronized into Configuration Manager from Exchange Server. What should you do?



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  