# Lab Answer Key:  Module 1: Extending the Configuration Manager infrastructure to support Internet-based and mobile devices
# Lab A: Preparing for cloud integration
  
## Exercise 1: Activating an Azure trial subscription
  
#### Task 1: Create a new Microsoft account
  >  **Note:** Further tasks in this exercise require that you have an active Microsoft account without a Microsoft Azure subscription assigned to it. If you do not want to use your private Microsoft account, if you do not have one, or if you already have an Azure subscription, please follow the steps in this task to create a new Microsoft account.

1. On  **LON-DC1**, click the  **Internet Explorer** icon on the taskbar.

2. In the address bar, type  **www.live.com**, and then press Enter.

3. At the bottom of the  **Sign in** page, look for the "No account?" text, and then click the **Create one!** link.

4. On the  **Create an account** page, fill in the required fields with appropriate data. In the **User name** field, enter a new email address in the Outlook.com domain.
>  **Note:** Make sure that you write down the user name that you chose. For example, you can choose a user name in the _YourInitials_- _MMDDYY_@outlook.com format, such as DJ-060815@outlook.com. Use  **Pa55w.rd!** as the password. We recommend that you type your working email address in the **Alternate email address** text box.
5. After you fill out all the fields, click  **Create account** at the bottom of the page.

6. In the  **Welcome** window, click the right arrow. On the next page, set your time zone, and then click the right arrow. Select a color, and then click the right arrow.

7. On the  **Signature** page, click the right arrow.

8. On the  **Calendar** page, click the right arrow.

9. When you see the message "you're all set," click  **Let's go**.

10. Verify that your Inbox opens.



#### Task 2: Activate a trial Azure subscription
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, open a new tab in the Internet Explorer browser by clicking the  **new tab** icon in the title bar.

2. In the new tab, in the address bar, type  **http://aka.ms/cu92vo**, and then press Enter.

3. When the page opens, click  **Start**.

4. On the  **Azure Pass** page, sign in with the Microsoft account that you created in the previous task.
>  **Note:** Be aware that the Microsoft account that you use will be associated with your Azure trial subscription during this course. You cannot change this account later.
5. On the  **Microsoft Azure** page, verify your details, and then click **Confirm Microsoft Account**.

6. On the  **Azure Pass** page, enter the promo code that your instructor provided, click **Claim Promo Code**, and then click  **Activate**.

7. On the  **Sign up** page, provide your Microsoft account information, phone number, agreement, and then click **Sign up**.

8. Click  **get started with your Azure subscription**, and then verify that a new Azure Portal opens. At the Welcome prompt, click  **Maybe later**.

9. In the navigation pane, click  **Azure Active Directory**.

10. In the Azure Active Directory blade, under  **MANAGE**, click  **Domain names**.

11. Take note of your domain name in the form of  **&lt; _domain_&gt;.onmicrosoft.com**


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully created a new Microsoft account and activated a trial version of Azure.


## Exercise 2: Configuring and enabling directory syncing
  
#### Task 1: Configure the UPN and create a sync account
  
1. If needed, sign in to  **LON-DC1** as **ADATUM\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2. Click  **Start**, and then click  **Server Manager**.

3. In Server Manager, click  **Tools**, and then click  **Active Directory Domains and Trusts**.

4. In the  **Active Directory Domains and Trusts** window, right-click **Active Directory Domains and Trusts**, and then click  **Properties**.

5. On the  **UPN Suffixes** tab, in the **Alternative UPN suffixes:** text box, type ** _directory_.onmicrosoft.com**, and then click  **Add**.

6. Click  **OK**, and then close  **Active Directory Domains and Trusts**.

7. Right-click  **Start**, and then click  **Windows PowerShell (Admin)**.

8. At the Windows PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter. Be sure to replace " _directory_" with your unique domain name:

  ```
  Get-ADUser -Filter * -Properties SamAccountName | foreach { Set-ADUser $_ -UserPrincipalName ($_.SamAccountName + "@directory.onmicrosoft.com" )}
  ```

9. Wait until the command completes, and then close the  **Windows PowerShell** window.

10. Open Internet Explorer from the taskbar. In the address bar, type  **https://portal.azure.com**, and then press Enter.

11. On the  **Microsoft Azure** page, type the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure trial subscription, and then click **Continue**. Type your password, and then click  **Sign in**.

12. In the Azure Portal, in the left-hand navigation pane, click  **Azure Active Directory**.

13. Verify that  **Overview** is selected, and then click the **Add a user** quick task.

14. In the  **User** blade, under **Name**, type  **Sync**.

15. In the  **User name** text box, type **Sync@directory.onmicrosoft.com**.
>  **Note:** Make a note of the complete user name. This is the USER NAME plus the suffix shown to the right of the at sign (@), such as Sync@ _directory_.onmicrosoft.com.
16. Click  **profile** in the **Profile** blade, in the **First name** text box, type **SYNC**, click  **Ok**, and then click  **Directory role**.

17. In the  **Directory role** list, click **Global Administrator**, and then click  **Ok**.

18. Under  **Password**, click the check box next to  **Show Password**.

19. Make a note of the temporary password shown.

20. Click  **Create**. 

21. On the  **Overview** page, click **Find a user**. This link takes you to the  **All users** page. Notice that the **Sync user** is created.

22. At the top right-hand corner of the Azure Portal, click your user account, and then click  **Sign out**.

23. Click  **Use another account**.

24. Enter the user name for the  **SYNC** user that you recorded earlier (it will be **SYNC@directory.onmicrosoft.com**), and then click  **Continue**.

25. Enter the temporary password that you noted when creating the sync account, and then click  **Sign in**.

26. When prompted, enter the old password, in the  **New password** and **Confirm password** text boxes, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then click  **Update password and sign in**.

27. At the top right-hand corner of the Azure Portal, click the  **Sync user** account, and then click **Sign out**. 

28. Close and reopen Internet Explorer.

29. In the address bar, type  **https://portal.azure.com**, and then press Enter.

30. Sign in to Azure by using the Microsoft account that is associated with your trial subscription. The account should be on the list.



#### Task 2: Install and configure Azure AD Connect
  
1. In Internet Explorer open a new tab.

2. On new tab open  **http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=47594**.

3. On the  **Microsoft Azure Active Directory Connect** page, click **Download**, and then click  **Run**.

4. In the  **Microsoft Azure Active Directory Connect** wizard, on the **Welcome to Azure AD Connect** page, select the **I agree to the license terms and privacy notice** check box, and then click **Continue**.

5. On the  **Express Settings** page, click **Customize**.

6. On the  **Install required components** page, click **Install**.

7. On the  **User sign-in** page, ensure that **Password Synchronization** is selected, and then click **Next**.

8. On the  **Connect to Azure AD** page, in the **USERNAME** and **PASSWORD** text boxes, enter the **SYNC** account user name (it will be in the **sync@domain.onmicrosoft.com** format) and the password **Pa55w.rd**, and then click  **Next**.

9. On the  **Connect your directories** page, verify that **Adatum.com** is listed as the Active Directory forest, and then click **Add Directory**.

10. On the  **AD Forest account** page, select **Use existing account**, and then type  **Adatum\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**, and then click  **OK**.

11. Verify that a check mark appears next to  **Adatum.com**, and then click  **Next**.

12. On the  **Azure AD sign-in configuration** page, ensure that in the **USER PRINCIPAL NAME** drop-down list box, the **userPrincipalName** value is selected.

13. Select the check box next to  **Continue without any verified domains**, and then click  **Next**.

14. On the  **Domain and OU filtering** page, click **Sync selected domains and OUs**.

15. Expand  **Adatum.com**, and then ensure that the following check boxes are selected:  **IT**,  **Managers**,  **Marketing**,  **Research**, and  **Sales**. Remove the selections on the other check boxes, and then click  **Next**.

16. On the  **Uniquely identifying your users** page, click **Next**.

17. On the  **Filter users and devices** page, click **Next**.

18. On the  **Optional features** page, review the available options, but do not make any changes. Ensure that **Password synchronization** is selected, and then click **Next**.

19. On the  **Ready to configure** page, ensure that **Start the synchronization process when configuration completes** is selected, and then click **Install**.

20. When configuration is complete, click  **Exit**.

21. Objects now begin syncing between your local Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS) and Azure Active Directory (Azure AD). You must wait approximately 10 minutes for this process to complete. Close the  **Internet Explorer** window on **LON-DC1**.



#### Task 3: Verify synchronization
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, open Internet Explorer, and then go to  **https://portal.azure.com**.

2. Sign in with the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure trial subscription.

3. In the Azure Portal, click  **Azure Active Directory**.

4. On the  **Azure Active Directory** page, click **Users and groups**.

5. Click  **All Users**, and then verify that you see users from your local AD DS.

6. Click  **All groups**, and then verify that you see groups from your local AD DS. 
>  **Note:** It might take from 10 to 15 minutes for groups to appear.
7. Click the  **Managers** group.

8. On the  **Managers** group page, ensure that you see users on the **Members** tile. Additionally, verify that you cannot make any changes to this group, because it is sourced from the local Active Directory.

9. Close Internet Explorer. 



#### Task 4: Prepare for the next lab
  
- Keep the VMs running for the next lab.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully implemented Azure AD Connect.



# Lab B: Implementing PKI for Configuration Manager site systems and clients
  
## Exercise 1: Creating certificate templates for Configuration Manager services
  
#### Task 1: Create a Configuration Manager IIS servers group
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, in  **Server Manager**, click  **Tools**, and then click  **Active Directory Users and Computers**.

2. In the navigation pane, expand  **Adatum.com**, and then select the  **Users** container.

3. Right-click the  **Users** container, point to **New**, and then click  **Group**.

4. In the  **New Object - Group** dialog box, in the **Group name** text box, type **Configuration Manager IIS Servers**, and then click  **OK**.

5. In the details pane, double-click  **Configuration Manager IIS Servers**.

6. In the  **Configuration Manager IIS Servers Properties** dialog box, on the **Members** tab, click **Add**.

7. In the  **Select Users, Contacts, Computers, Service Accounts, or Groups** dialog box, click **Object Types**.

8. In the  **Object Types** dialog box, select the **Computers** check box, and then click **OK**.

9. In the  **Select Users, Contacts, Computers, Service Accounts, or Groups** dialog box, in the **Enter the object names to select** text box, type **LON-CFG**, click  **Check Names**, and then click  **OK**.

10. In the  **Configuration Manager IIS Servers Properties** dialog box, click **OK**.

11. Close  **Active Directory Users and Computers**.



#### Task 2: Create a Configuration Manager Web Server certificate template
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, in  **Server Manager**, click  **Tools**, and then click  **Certification Authority**.

2. In the  **Certification Authority** console, expand **AdatumCA**, and then click  **Certificate Templates**.

3. Right-click the  **Certificate Templates** folder, and then click **Manage**. The  **Certificate Templates** console opens.

4. In the results pane, right-click  **Web Server**, and then click  **Duplicate Template**.

5. On the  **Compatibility** tab, ensure that the **Windows Server 2003** option is selected.

6. In the  **Properties of New Template** dialog box, on the **General** tab, in the **Template display name** text box, type **Configuration Manager Web Server Certificate**.

7. Click the  **Subject Name** tab, and then ensure that the **Supply in the request** option is selected.

8. On the  **Security** tab, under **Group or user names**, click  **Domain Admins**, and under  **Permissions for Domain Admins**, clear the  **Enroll** check box, click **Enterprise Admins**, and then clear the  **Enroll** check box.

9. On the  **Security** tab, click **Add**. In the  **Select Users, Computers, Service Accounts or Groups** dialog box, in the **Enter the object names to select** text box, type **Configuration Manager IIS Servers**, click  **Check Names**, and then click  **OK**.

10. Click  **Configuration Manager IIS Servers**, select the  **Enroll** check box, and then click **OK**.



#### Task 3: Create a Configuration Manager client certificate template
  
1. In the  **Certificate Templates** console, in the results pane, right-click **Workstation Authentication**, and then click  **Duplicate Template**.

2. On the  **Compatibility** tab, ensure that the **Windows Server 2003** option is selected.

3. In the  **Properties of New Template** dialog box, on the **General** tab, in the **Template display name** text box, type **Configuration Manager Client Certificate**.

4. On the  **Security** tab, click **Domain Computers**, select the  **Read** check box, select the **Autoenroll** check box, and then click **OK**. Do not clear the  **Enroll** check box.



#### Task 4: Create a Configuration Manager distribution point client authentication certificate template
  
1. In the  **Certificate Templates** console, in the results pane, right-click **Workstation Authentication**, and then click  **Duplicate Template**.

2. On the  **Compatibility** tab, ensure that the **Windows Server 2003** option is selected.

3. In the  **Properties of New Template** dialog box, on the **General** tab, in the **Template display name** text box, type **Configuration Manager Distribution Point Certificate**.

4. On the  **Request Handling** tab, select **Allow private key to be exported**.

5. On the  **Security** tab, under **Group or user names**, click  **Domain Admins**, and under  **Permissions for Domain Admins**, clear the  **Enroll** check box, click **Enterprise Admins**, and then clear the  **Enroll** check box.

6. On the  **Security** tab, click **Add**, and in the  **Select Users, Computers, Service Accounts or Groups** dialog box, in the **Enter the object names to select** box, type **Configuration Manager IIS Servers**, click  **Check Names**, and then click  **OK**.

7. Click  **Configuration Manager IIS Servers**, select the  **Enroll** check box, and then click **OK**. Do not clear the  **Read** permission.

>  **Note:** This certificate template is based on the **Workstation Authentication** template, which is the same template that the Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager (Configuration Manager) client certificate uses. However, this template requires the private key to be exportable because you must import the certificate as a file rather than select it from the certificate store.


#### Task 5: Create a Configuration Manager mobile device client certificate template
  
1. In the  **Certificate Templates** console, in the results pane, right-click **Authenticated Session**, and then click  **Duplicate Template**.

2. On the  **Compatibility** tab, ensure that the **Windows Server 2003** option is selected.

3. In the  **Properties of New Template** dialog box, on the **General** tab, in the **Template display name** text box, type **Configuration Manager Mobile Device Certificate**.

4. Click the  **Subject Name** tab, and then ensure that the **Build from this Active Directory information** option is selected.

5. In the  **Subject name format** list, select **Common name**, under  **Include this information in alternate subject name**, clear the  **User principal name (UPN)** check box, and then click **OK**.

6. Close the  **Certificate Templates** console.



#### Task 6: Enable the Configuration Manager certificate templates
  
1. In the  **Certification Authority** console, in the navigation pane, verify that you are still in the **Certificate Templates** folder.

2. Right-click the  **Certificate Templates** folder, point to **New**, and then click  **Certificate Template to Issue**.

3. In the  **Enable Certificate Templates** dialog box, click **Configuration Manager Client Certificate**, hold the Ctrl key, and then click  **Configuration Manager Distribution Point Certificate**,  **Configuration Manager Mobile Device Certificate** and **Configuration Manager Web Server Certificate**.

4. In the  **Enable Certificate Templates** dialog box, click **OK**, and then close the  **Certification Authority console**.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have successfully created a group for the Configuration Manager servers and created the templates for Configuration Manager certificates.


## Exercise 2: Deploying Certificates for Configuration Manager
  
#### Task 1: Create an autoenrollment GPO
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, in  **Server Manager**, click  **Tools**, and then click  **Group Policy Management**.

2. In the  **Group Policy Management Console**, expand  **Forest:Adatum.com**, expand  **Domains**, right-click  **Adatum.com**, and then click  **Create a GPO in this domain, and Link it here**.

3. In the  **New GPO** dialog box, in the **Name** text box, type **Enable Autoenrollment of Certificates**, and then click  **OK**.

4. Expand  **Adatum.com**, and then right-click  **Enable Autoenrollment of Certificates**, and then click  **Edit**.

5. In the  **Group Policy Management Editor** window, under **Computer Configuration**, expand  **Policies**, expand  **Windows Settings**, expand  **Security Settings**, and then click  **Public Key Policies**.

6. Right-click  **Certificate Services Client - Auto-Enrollment**, and then click  **Properties**.

7. In the  **Configuration Model** list, select **Enabled**, select the  **Renew expired certificates, update pending certificates, and remove revoked certificates** check box, select the **Update certificates that use certificate templates** check box, and then click **OK**.

8. Close the  **Group Policy Management Editor** window and the **Group Policy Management Console**.



#### Task 2: Request a Configuration Manager IIS certificate on the management point
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, restart the server.

2. Wait for the VM to restart, and then sign in as  **Adatum\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

3. On  **LON-CFG**, click  **Start**, type  **certlm.msc**, and then in the results list, click  **certlm.msc**.

4. In the  **certlm** console, expand **Certificates (Local Computer)**, expand  **Personal**, and then click  **Certificates**.

5. Right-click  **Certificates**, point to  **All Tasks**, and then click  **Request New Certificate**.

6. On the  **Before You Begin** page of the **Certificate Enrollment** wizard, click **Next**.

7. On the  **Select Certificate Enrollment Policy** page, click **Next**.

8. On the  **Request Certificates** page, select the **Configuration Manager Web Server Certificate** check box, and then click the **More information is required to enroll for this certificate. Click here to configure settings** link.

9. In the  **Certificate Properties** dialog box, on the **Subject** tab, under the **Alternative name** area, in the **Type** list, select **DNS**.

10. In the  **Value** text box, type **LON-CFG.Adatum.com**, and then click  **Add**.

11. Click the  **General** tab, in the **Friendly name** text box, type **Configuration Manager Web Services**, and then click  **OK**.

12. On the  **Request Certificates** page, click **Enroll**.

13. On the  **Certificates Installation Results** page, wait until the certificate installs, and then click **Finish**.



#### Task 3: Request a Configuration Manager client distribution point certificate
  
1. In the  **certlm** console, right-click **Certificates**, point to  **All Tasks**, and then click  **Request New Certificate**.

2. On the  **Before You Begin** page of the **Certificate Enrollment** wizard, click **Next**.

3. On the  **Select Certificate Enrollment Policy** page, click **Next**.

4. On the  **Request Certificates** page, select the **Configuration Manager Distribution Point Certificate** check box, and then click **Enroll**.

5. On the  **Certificates Installation Results** page, wait until the certificate installs, and then click **Finish**.

6. In the  **certlm** console, expand **Personal**, and then click  **Certificates**.

7. In the results pane, right-click the certificate that has  **Configuration Manager Distribution Point Certificate** on the **Certificate Template** column, point to **All Tasks**, and then click  **Export**. The  **Certificate Export** wizard opens.

8. On the  **Welcome to the Certificate Export Wizard** page, click **Next**.

9. On the  **Export Private Key** page, select **Yes, export the private key**, and then click  **Next**.

10. On the  **Export File Format** page, ensure that the **Personal Information Exchange - PKCS #12 (.PFX)** option is selected, and then click **Next**.

11. On the  **Security** page, select the **Password** check box, in the **Password** and **Confirm password** text boxes, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then click  **Next**.

12. On the  **File to Export** page, in the **File name** text box, type **C:\ConfigMgrDPCertificate.pfx**, and then click  **Next**.

13. On the  **Completing the Certificate Export Wizard** page, click **Finish**.

14. In the  **Certificate Export Wizard** dialog box, click **OK**.

15. Select the certificate that has  **Configuration Manager Distribution Point Certificate** on the **Certificate Template** column, right-click the certificate, and then click **Delete**

16. Close the  **certlm** console.



#### Task 4: Assign the Configuration Manager IIS certificate to Web services
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, click  **Start**, and then click  **Server Manager**.

2. Click  **Tools**, and then click  **Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager**.

3. Expand  **LON-CFG (ADATUM\Administrator)**, in the  **IIS Manage**r dialog box, expand  **Sites**, right-click  **Default Web Site**, and then click  **Edit Bindings**.

4. In the  **Site Bindings** dialog box, click **https**, and then click  **Edit**.

5. In the  **Edit Site Bindings** dialog box, in the **SSL certificate** list, select **Configuration Manager Web Services**, and then click  **OK**.

6. In the  **Site Bindings** dialog box, click **Close**.

7. Close  **Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager**, and then close  **Server Manager**.



#### Task 5: Deploy certificate profiles to clients
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, click  **File Explorer** on the taskbar.

2. In the address bar, type  **\\\LON-DC1\CertEnroll**, and then press Enter.

3. Right-click  **LON-DC1.Adatum.com_AdatumCA.crt**, and then click  **Copy**.

4. Right-click the desktop, and then click  **Paste**.

5. Click the  **Configuration Manager** icon on the taskbar.

6. On the  **Assets and Compliance** workspace, expand **Compliance Settings**, and then expand  **Company Resource Access**.

7. Click  **Certificate Profiles**, and then on the ribbon, click  **Create Certificate Profile**.

8. On the  **General** page of the **Create Certificate Profile** wizard, in the **Name** text box, type **AdatumEnterpriseRootCA**, ensure that  **Trusted CA certificate** is selected, and then click **Next**.

9. On the  **Trusted CA Certificate** page, click **Import**.

10. In the  **Open** dialog box, click **Desktop**, click  **LON-DC1.Adatum.com_AdatumCA.crt**, and then click  **Open**.

11. On the  **Trusted CA Certificate** page, ensure that **Computer certificate store - Root** is selected, and then click **Next**.

12. On the  **Supported Platforms** page, click **Select all**, and then click  **Next**.

13. On the  **Summary** page, click **Next**.

14. On the  **Completion** page, click **Close**.

15. While the  **Certificate Profiles** node is selected, click **AdatumEnterpriseRootCA**, and then on the ribbon, click  **Deploy**.

16. In the  **Deploy Trusted CA Certificate Profile** dialog box, click **Browse**.

17. In the  **Select Collection** dialog box, click **User Collections**, and then click  **Device Collections**.

18. Click  **All Desktop and Server Clients**, and then click  **OK**.

19. Click  **OK** to close the **Deploy Trusted CA Certificate Profile** dialog box.



#### Task 6: Prepare for the next lab
  
- Keep the VMs running for the next lab.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have successfully issued Configuration Manager certificates.



# Lab C: Configuring cloud-based distribution points
  
## Exercise 1: Creating and exporting an Azure management certificate for cloud-based distribution points
  
#### Task 1: Create and issue the Azure management certificate
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, from  **Server Manager**, click  **Tools**, and then click  **Certification Authority**.

2. In the  **Certification Authority** console, expand **AdatumCA**, and then click  **Certificate Templates**.

3. Right-click the  **Certificate Templates** folder, and then click **Manage**. The  **Certificate Templates** console opens.

4. In the results pane, right-click  **Web Server**, and then click  **Duplicate Template**.

5. On the  **Compatibility** tab, ensure that the **Windows Server 2003** option is selected.

6. In the  **Properties of New Template** dialog box, on the **General** tab, in the **Template display name** text box, type **Microsoft Azure Management Certificate**.

7. Click the  **Request Handling** tab, and then select the check box next to **Allow private key to be exported**.

8. On the  **Security** tab, under **Group or user names**, click  **Enterprise Admins**, and then clear the  **Enroll** check box.

9. On the  **Security** tab, click **Add**. In the  **Select Users, Computers, Service Accounts or Groups** dialog box, in the **Enter the object names to select** text box, type **Configuration Manager IIS Servers**, click  **Check Names**, and then click  **OK**.

10. Click  **Configuration Manager IIS Servers**, select the  **Enroll** check box, and then click **OK**.

11. Close the  **Certificate Templates** console.

12. In the  **Certification Authority** console, in the navigation pane, verify that you are still in the **Certificate Templates** folder.

13. Right-click the  **Certificate Templates** folder, point to **New**, and then click  **Certificate Template to Issue**.

14. In the  **Enable Certificate Templates** dialog box, click **Microsoft Azure Management Certificate**.

15. In the  **Enable Certificate Templates** dialog box, click **OK**, and then close the  **Certification Authority** console.



#### Task 2: Request the Azure management certificate
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, click  **Start**, type  **certlm.msc**, and then click  **certlm.msc**. 

2. In the  **certlm** console, expand **Certificates (Local Computer)**, expand  **Personal**, and then click  **Certificates**.

3. Right-click  **Certificates**, point to  **All Tasks**, and then click  **Request New Certificate**.

4. On the  **Before You Begin** page of the **Certificate Enrollment** wizard, click **Next**.

5. On the  **Select Certificate Enrollment Policy** page, click **Next**.

6. On the  **Request Certificates** page, select the **Microsoft Azure Management Certificate** check box, and then click the **More information is required to enroll for this certificate. Click here to configure settings** link.

7. In the  **Certificate Properties** dialog box, on the **Subject** tab, under the **Subject name** area, in the **Type** list, select **Common name**.

8. In the  **Value** text box, type **clouddp1.cloudapp.net**, and then click  **Add**.

9. In the  **Certificate Properties** dialog box, on the **Subject** tab, under the **Alternative name** area, in the **Type** list, select **DNS**.

10. In the  **Value** text box, type **clouddp1.cloudapp.net**, click  **Add**, and then click  **OK**.

11. On the  **Request Certificates** page, click **Enroll**.

12. On the  **Certificates Installation Results** page, wait until the certificate installs, and then click **Finish**.



#### Task 3: Export the Azure management certificate
  
1. In the  **certlm** window, expand **Personal**, and then select  **Certificates**.

2. In the results pane, right-click the certificate named  **clouddp1.cloudapp.net**, point to  **All Tasks**, and then click  **Export**. The  **Certificate Export** wizard opens.

3. On the  **Welcome to the Certificate Export Wizard** page, click **Next**.

4. On the  **Export Private Key** page, select **Yes, export the private key**, and then click  **Next**.

5. On the  **Export File Format** page, ensure that the **Personal Information Exchange - PKCS #12 (.PFX)** option is selected, and then click **Next**.

6. On the  **Security** page, select the **Password** check box. In the **Password** and **Confirm password** text boxes, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then click  **Next**.

7. On the  **File to Export** page, in the **File name** text box, type **C:\AzureCertificate.pfx**, and then click  **Next**.

8. On the  **Completing the Certificate Export Wizard** page, click **Finish**.

9. In the  **Certificate Export Wizard** dialog box, click **OK**.

10. Repeat steps 1 through 9, but on the  **Export Private Key** page, select **No, do not export the private key**. Configure the following options:

  - For the  **Export File Format**, select  **DER encoded binary X.509 (.CER)**.

  - Name the file  **C:\AzureCertificate.cer**.

11. Close the  **certlm** window.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have successfully created and exported the Azure management certificate to be used for cloud-based distribution points.


## Exercise 2: Setting up Azure and creating a cloud-based distribution point
  
#### Task 1: Upload the Azure management certificate to Azure
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, open Internet Explorer, and then browse to  **https://portal.azure.com**. Sign in with the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure trial subscription.

2. In the navigation pane, click  **More services**.

3. In the **GENERAL** section, click **Subscriptions** and then click your subscription.

4. In the  **Subscription** pane, click **Management certificates**. 

5. Click  **Upload**.

6. In the  **Upload Certificates** box, under .Cer Certificate File, click the browse button. 

7. In the  **Choose File to Upload** dialog box, browse to **\\LON-CFG\C$**, and then select  **Azurecertificate.cer**.

8. Click  **Open**, and then click **Upload**. In a few moments, the certificate will display on the  **Management Certificates** page.

9. Make note of the  **SUBSCRIPTION ID**. Write down the subscription ID because you will need it for the next task.

10. Close Internet Explorer.



#### Task 2: Install a cloud-based distribution point
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, click  **Configuration Manager Console** on the taskbar.

2. In the  **Configuration Manager** console, click the **Administration** workspace.

3. Expand  **Cloud Services**, and then click  **Cloud Distribution Points**.

4. Click  **Create Cloud Distribution Point** on the ribbon. The **Create Cloud Distribution Point Wizard** starts.

5. On the  **General** page, next to **Subscription ID**, type the subscription ID that you noted in the last task.

6. Next to  **Management certificate**, click  **Browse**.

7. Browse to  **C:\**, and then select  **Azurecertificate.pfx**. Click  **Open**, provide the password  **Pa55w.rd**, and then click  **OK**.

8. On the  **General** page, click **Next**.

9. On the  **Settings** page, verify that the **Service name**,  **Region**, and  **Primary site** fields have been filled in automatically.

10. Next to  **Certificate file**, click  **Browse**.

11. Browse to  **C:\**, and then select  **Azurecertificate.pfx**. Click  **Open**, provide the password  **Pa55w.rd**, and then click  **OK**.

12. On the  **Settings** page, click **Next**.

13. On the  **Alerts** page, specify the following, and then click **Next**:

  - Storage alert threshold (GB):  **100**

  - Monthly transfer alert threshold (GB):  **50**

14. On the  **Summary** page, click **Next**.

15. On the  **Completion** page, click **Close**.

16. Open File Manager, and then browse to  **C:\Program Files\Microsoft Configuration Manager\Logs**.

17. Open  **CloudMgr.log**, and then monitor the progress of the cloud distribution point creation.

18. In the  **Configuration Manager** console, with **Cloud Distribution Points** selected, verify that **clouddp1.cloudapp.net** shows a status of **Ready**. This might take up to 10 minutes.

19. Open Internet Explorer, and then browse to  **https://portal.azure.com**. Sign in with the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure trial subscription.

20. In the Azure Portal, in the navigation pane, click  **All resources**. Make note of the  **Storage account (classic)** and **Cloud service (classic)** objects. These both relate to the cloud-based distribution point.

21. Click the  **Cloud service (classic)** object.

22. On the  **Cloud service (classic)** page, in the details pane, make note of the Site URL and Public IP addresses. The Site URL should be in the form of http:// _GUID_.cloudapp.net.



#### Task 3: Distribute content to the cloud-based distribution point
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, switch to the  **Configuration Manager** console.

2. Click the  **Software Library** workspace, expand **Application Management**, and then click  **Applications**.

3. Right-click  **XML Notepad 2007**, click  **Distribute Content**, and then click  **Next**.

4. On the  **Content** page, click **Next**.

5. On the  **Content Destination** page, click **Add**, and then click  **Distribution Point**.

6. On the  **Add Distribution Points** page, select **CLOUDDP1.CLOUDAPP.NET**, click  **OK**, and then click  **Next**.

7. On the  **Summary** page, click **Next**.

8. On the  **Completion** page, click **Close**.

9. Click the  **Monitoring** workspace, expand **Distribution Status**, and then click  **Content Status**.

10. Select  **XML Notepad 2007**, and then monitor the  **Completion Statistics**. Right-click  **XML Notepad 2007**, and then click  **View Status**. The status should show "Successfully distributed content".



#### Task 4: Stop the cloud-based distribution point service
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, switch to the  **Configuration Manager** console.

2. In the  **Configuration Manager** console, click the **Administration** workspace.

3. Expand  **Cloud Services**, and then click  **Cloud Distribution Points**.

4. In the details pane, right-click  **clouddp1.cloudapp.net**, and then click  **Stop Service**. Verify that the status shows  **Stopped**.

5. Close all open windows on  **LON-CFG**.

>  **Note:** You perform this task to minimize the resource cost that is allocated against your Azure trial subscription.


#### Task 5: Prepare for the next module
  
- At the end of the lab, shut down the VMs. However, do not revert the VMs, because you will need the current state for later modules.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have successfully set up Azure and created a cloud-based distribution point.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  