# Module 4: Managing Office 365 apps by using Configuration Manager
# Lab A: Preparing Office 365 for application deployment
  
### Scenario
  
 Your organization has decided to use Office 365 and utilize the benefits of cloud-based services such as Exchange, Skype, and Office 365 ProPlus. You already have a Microsoft Azure subscription that you want to use for Office 365. You decide to add Adam Hobbs as another global administrator. Adam will then be in charge of signing up for the Office 365 subscription.


### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Sign up for a trial subscription of Office 365.

- Assign Office 365 ProPlus licenses to users.

>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Intune and other cloud services referenced in the course. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup
  
 Estimated time: 30 minutes

Virtual machines:  **20703-2A-LON-DC1-A**,  **20703-2A-LON-CFG-A**, and  **20703-2A-LON-CL1-A**

 User name:  **Adatum\\Administrator**

 Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

 For this lab, you will use the available virtual machine (VM) environment. Before you begin the lab, you must complete the following steps:

1. On the host computer, start  **Hyper-V Manager**.

2. In Microsoft Hyper-V Manager, click  **20703-2A-LON-DC1-A**, and then in the Actions pane, click  **Start**.

3. In the Actions pane, click  **Connect**. Wait until the VM starts. 

4. Sign in by using the following credentials: 

  - User name:  **Administrator**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

  - Domain:  **Adatum**

5. Repeat steps 2 through 4 for  **20703-2A-LON-CFG-A** and **20703-2A-LON-CL1-A**.


 For on-premises VM environments only, start  **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, which is used to provide Internet access for the VMs.

 To complete this lab successfully, you must have completed Module 1 Lab A, "Preparing for cloud integration."


## Exercise 1: Signing up for an Office 365 trial subscription
  
### Scenario
  
 Your first step in deploying and managing the Office 365 client applications is to sign up for an Office 365 trial subscription. This will allow you to assign licenses to specific users and to configure the cloud-based deployment method for the applications. You will first assign Global Administrator permissions to a user named Adam Hobbs and subscribe to Microsoft Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) Premium. Adam will then assign the Office 365 trial subscription to the existing Azure service.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Configure Adam Hobbs as a global administrator in Azure

2. Sign up for a trial Office 365 subscription



#### Task 1: Configure Adam Hobbs as a global administrator in Azure
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, open Internet Explorer, and then browse to  **https://portal.azure.com**. 

2. Sign in with your Microsoft account that you configured in Module 1.

3. From the  **Azure Active Directory** node, configure **Adam Hobbs** as a **Global administrator** for the directory.

4. From the  **Azure Active Directory** node, click **Licenses**, and then activate a free trial for Azure AD Premium P2.

5. Close Internet Explorer.



#### Task 2: Sign up for a trial Office 365 subscription
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, open Internet Explorer, and then browse to  **https://portal.office.com**. 

2. On the  **Office 365** page, sign in as **Adam_@&lt;_** _directory_ ** _&gt;_.onmicrosoft.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**. Note that  _directory_ refers to the name you specified in Module 1.

3. Click the  **Admin** button.

4. Expand  **Billing**, and then click  **Purchase services**.

5. On the  **Purchase services** page, scroll down to **Office 365 ProPlus**, and then click the three dots (...) at the bottom of the information box. 

6. Click  **Start free trial**.

7. On the  **confirm your order** page, click **Try now**.

8. On the  **order receipt** page, click **Continue**.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have signed up for an Office 365 trail subscription.


## Exercise 2: Assigning Office 365 ProPlus licenses to users
  
### Scenario
  
 Now that you have subscribed to Office 365, you can assign product licenses to users. In this exercise, you will assign licenses to Adam Hobbs and Abbi Skinner.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Assign Office 365 licenses to users

2. Verify that an Office 365 license has been assigned



#### Task 1: Assign Office 365 licenses to users
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, if necessary, open Internet Explorer, and then browse to  **https://portal.office.com**. 

2. On the  **Office 365** page, sign in as **Adam@_&lt;_** _directory_ ** _&gt;_.onmicrosoft.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**. 

3. Click the  **Admin** button.

4. In the navigation pane, expand  **Users**, and then click  **Active Users**.

5. Assign  **Adam Hobbs** and **Abbi Skinner** an **Office 365 ProPlus** license and an **Azure Active Directory Premium P2** license.

6. Assign  **Allan Yoo** and **Ana Cantrell** an **Office 365 ProPlus** license and an **Azure Active Directory Premium P2** license.

7. When you are finished, close Internet Explorer.



#### Task 2: Verify that an Office 365 license has been assigned
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, on the taskbar, right-click  **Internet Explorer**, and then click  **Start InPrivate Browsing**.

2. Browse to  **https://portal.office.com**. 

3. On the  **Office 365** page, sign in as **abbi@ _&lt;directory&gt;_.onmicrosoft.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

4. Take note of all the applications available from the Office 365 portal.

5. At the top of the portal, under  **Install Office apps**, click  **Other install options**. The  **Software** portal opens.

6. On the  **Office** page, take note of the **Office 365 ProPlus** apps that can be installed on your computer.

7. Close Internet Explorer.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have assigned Office 365 licenses to corporate users.


## Exercise 3: Modifying Office 365 ProPlus options for manual downloads
  
### Scenario
  
 Although you will deploy Office 365 ProPlus by using Configuration Manager, you want to ensure that if anyone installs it manually, only Office for Windows will install. You also want to verify that feature updates are installed every four months. 

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Modify Office software download settings

2. Prepare for the next lab



#### Task 1: Modify Office software download settings
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, if necessary, open Internet Explorer, and then browse to  **https://portal.office.com**. 

2. On the  **Office 365** page, sign in as **Adam@_&lt;_** _directory_ ** _&gt;_.onmicrosoft.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

3. Click the  **Admin** button.

4. In the navigation pane, expand  **Settings**, and then click  **Services &amp; add-ins**.

5. In the  **Services &amp; add-ins** list, click **Office software download settings**. 

6. On the  **Office software download settings** page, configure the following settings:

  - Turn off  **Software for Mac**

7. Verify that  **Every 4 months (Deferred channel)** is selected.

8. At the bottom of the page, click  **Save**, and then close the  **Office software download settings** page.

9. Close Internet Explorer.



#### Task 2: Prepare for the next lab
  
- Keep the virtual machines running for the next lab.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have modified Office 365 ProPlus deployment options for manual installations.



## 
  
**Question** 
Ada Russel is a user in your organization. She signs in to the Office 365 portal and attempts to download and install Office 365 ProPlus applications manually. However, she cannot see any available applications. What do you need to do?

**Question** 
What is the default update channel for Office 365 applications that you download from the Office 365 portal?

**Question** 
You want to prevent users from using the Office 365 portal to install applications. What should you do?



# Lab B: Deploying and managing Office 365 client applications by using Configuration Manager
  
### Scenario
  
 You are planning to manage Office 365 ProPlus by using Configuration Manager. You need to configure the Office 365 installer and then deploy Office 365 ProPlus to client devices. You also need to ensure that software updates are configured so that the devices always contain the latest version of Office 365.


### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Configure the infrastructure requirements to support Office 365 client management.

- Deploy an Office 365 client.

- Configure software updates to support Office 365.

>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Intune and other cloud services referenced in the course. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup
  
 Estimated time: 60 minutes

Virtual machines:  **20703-2A-LON-DC1-A**,  **20703-2A-LON-CFG-A**,  **20703-2A-LON-SVR1-A**, and  **20703-2A-LON-CL1-A**

 User name:  **Adatum\\Administrator**

 Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

 For this lab, you will use the available virtual machine (VM) environment. This lab uses the VMs that you used in the previous lab, which should still be running. If you shut down the VMs from the previous lab, before you begin this lab, complete the following steps:

1. On the host computer, start  **Hyper-V Manager**.

2. In Hyper-V Manager, click  **20703-2A-LON-DC1-A**, and then in the Actions pane, click  **Start**.

3. In the Actions pane, click  **Connect**. Wait until the VM starts. 

4. Sign in with the following credentials: 

  - User name:  **Administrator**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

  - Domain:  **Adatum**

5. Repeat steps 2 through 4 for  **20703-2A-LON-CFG-A**,  **20703-2A-LON-SVR1-A**

6. Repeat steps 2 and 3 for  **20703-2A-LON-CL1-A**. Do not sign in until directed to do so.


 For on-premises VM environments only, start  **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, which is used to provide Internet access for the VMs.


## Exercise 1: Configuring infrastructure requirements to support Office 365 client management
  
### Scenario
  
 You need to ensure that Configuration Manager clients report hardware inventory and status information for Office 365 client installations. You will validate that hardware inventory classes are enabled and that the site has been configured to manage Office 365 clients.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Validate hardware inventory settings 

2. Enable management of the Office 365 client agent



#### Task 1: Validate hardware inventory settings
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, from the taskbar, start the  **Configuration Manager** console.

2. From the  **Administration** workspace, navigate to the **Client Settings** node.

3. Open  **Default Client Settings** and verify that **Enable hardware inventory on clients** is set to **Yes**.

4. Click  **Set Classes** and verify that **Office 365 ProPlus Configurations (Office365ProPlusConfigurations)** is selected.

5. Click  **OK** to close the **Hardware Inventory Classes** dialog box.



#### Task 2: Enable management of the Office 365 client agent
  
1. In the  **Configuration Manager** console, in the **Default Settings** dialog box, click **Software Updates**.

2. Next to  **Enable management of the Office 365 Client Agent**, select  **Yes**.

3. Click  **OK** to close the **Default Settings** dialog box.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have validated infrastructure requirements to support Office 365 client management.


## Exercise 2: Deploying the Office 365 client application
  
### Scenario
  
 You need to deploy the Office 365 client to support your deployment plan. To do so, configure:

- Two deployments—one using Deferred Channel and the other using Current Channel.

- Two collections—one representing each channel.

- Two source folders—one representing each channel.


 Then, deploy Office 365 ProPlus to both channels.

 The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create target collections and source folders

2. Configure the Office 365 installers

3. Deploy the Office 365 application to client devices

4. Update the client policy on LON-CL1 and install the Office 365 application



#### Task 1: Create target collections and source folders
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, if necessary, on the taskbar, click  **Configuration Manager Console**.

2. On the  **Assets and Compliance** workspace, click **Device Collections**.

3. Create a new device collection with the following information:

  - Name:  **Office 365 Current Channel**

  - Limiting collection:  **All Windows 10 Workstations**

  - Schedule a full update on this collection: not selected

4. Copy the  **Office 365 Current Channel** collection, and then edit the new collection with the following information:

  - Name:  **Office 365 Deferred Channel**

  - Schedule a full update on this collection: selected

  - Membership Rules:  **Include collections** - **All Windows 10 Workstations**

  - Membership Rules.  **Exclude collections - Office 365 Current Channel**

5. Open File Explorer, and then create the following subfolders under  **E:\\Source**:

  -  **O365Current**

  -  **O365Deferred**

6. Close File Explorer.



#### Task 2: Configure the Office 365 installers
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, if necessary, on the taskbar, click  **Configuration Manager Console**. 

2. Click the  **Software Library** workspace, and then click **Office 365 Client Management**. The  **Office 365 Client Management** dashboard displays.

3. In the  **Office 365 Client Management** dashboard, click **Office 365 Installer**. The  **Office 365 Client Installation Wizard** starts.

4. Complete the wizard with the following options:

  - Name:  **Office 365 Current Channel**

  - Content Location:  **\\\\LON-CFG\\e$\\Source\\O365Current**

  - Manually specify the Office 365 client settings

  - Suite:  **Office 365 ProPlus**

  - Office 365 Client Applications: Clear the  **Publisher** check mark

  - Architecture:  **32-bit**

  - Channel:  **Current**

  - Enable these properties:
 **Accept EULA**

 **Autoactivate**

 **Pin Icons to Taskbar**

  - Do not deploy the application now.

  - It will take several minutes to compete the download and show the  **Completion** page.

5. Repeat steps 1-4 to create another installation. Configure the following exceptions:

  - Name:  **Office 365 Deferred Channel**

  - Content Location:  **\\\\LON-CFG\\e$\\Source\\O365Deferred**

  - Channel:  **Deferred**



#### Task 3: Deploy the Office 365 application to client devices
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, if necessary, on the taskbar, click  **Configuration Manager Console**. 

2. Click the  **Software Library** workspace, expand **Application Management**, and then click  **Applications**. Notice that two Office 365 applications display.

3. Right-click  **Office 365 Current Channel**, and then click  **Deploy**. The  **Deploy Software Wizard** starts.

4. On the  **General** page, configure the following option, and then click **Next**:

  - Collection:  **Office 365 Current Channel**

>  **Note:** Since there are no members in the Office 365 Current Channel collection, you will get a message warning you that the collection contains no members. Click **OK** to dismiss this message.
5. On the  **Content** page, click **Add**, and then click  **Distribution point**. 

6. In the  **Add Distribution Points** dialog box, select **LON-CFG.Adatum.com**, click  **OK**, and then click  **Next**.

7. On the  **Deployment Settings** page, configure the following options, and then click **Next**:

  - Action:  **Install**

  - Purpose:  **Required**

8. On the  **Scheduling** page, configure the following option, and then click **Next**:

  - Installation deadline:  **As soon as possible after the available time**

9. Complete the wizard using the default steps.

10. Repeat steps 1-9 to create another installation. Configure the following exceptions:

  - Application:  **Office 365 Deferred Channel**

  - Collection:  **Office 365 Deferred Channel**



#### Task 4: Update the client policy on LON-CL1 and install the Office 365 application
  
1. Switch to the  **LON-CL1** computer.

2. Sign in as  **Adatum\\Maj** with the password of **Pa55w.rd**. You may be prompted to install Windows Store apps. Close all windows. 

3. Open Control Panel, open  **Configuration Manager**, and then run a  **Machine Policy Retrieval &amp; Evaluation Cycle**.

4. On the  **Actions** tab, click **Application Deployment Evaluation Cycle**, click  **Run Now**, and then click  **OK**.

5. Close all open windows.

6. Wait one minute for the policy to process.

7. Open the  **Software Center**, and then click  **Installation Status**. 

8. Monitor the installation of the  **Office 365 Deferred Channel** application.

9. When the installation is finished, sign out of LON-CL1.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have created two collections and two source folders and then configured and deployed the Office 365 client to the two collections.


## Exercise 3: Configuring software updates to support Office 365
  
### Scenario
  
 You need to ensure that the Office 365 client applications that have been deployed in your organization are updated in accordance with their update channel assignment. You need to configure the software update point and then configure automatic deployment rules for the  **Office 365 Current Channel** and **Office 365 Deferred Channel** collections.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Modify software update point classifications and products

2. Synchronize the software update point

3. Create an automatic deployment rule to deploy the Office 365 client applications

4. Create a second deployment for the Office 365 updates automatic deployment rule

5. Prepare for the next module



#### Task 1: Modify software update point classifications and products
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, from the taskbar, start the  **Configuration Manager** console.

2. In the  **Configuration Manager** console, click the **Administration** workspace.

3. In the navigation pane, expand the  **Site Configuration** node, and then click **Sites**.

4. Right-click  **S01 - Adatum Site**, point to  **Configure Site Components**, and then click  **Software Update Point**.

5. In the  **Software Update Point Component Properties** box, configure the following options:

  - Sync Settings:  **Synchronize from Microsoft Update**

  - Classifications:  **Updates**

  - Products:  **Office 365 Client**



#### Task 2: Synchronize the software update point
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, in the  **Configuration Manager** console, click the **Software Library** workspace.

2. Expand  **Office 365 Client Management**, and then click  **Office 365 Updates**.

3. On the ribbon, click  **Synchronize Software Updates**.

4. Monitor the synchronization process. This takes at least 15 minutes to complete. You can monitor the progress by viewing the  **wsyncmgr.log** file at **C:\\Program Files\\Microsoft Configuration Manager\\Logs**.

5. When the synchronization completes, refresh the  **Office 365 Updates** node. There should be several Office 365 client update files that display.
>  **Note:** If no updates are displayed, repeat steps 2-5.


#### Task 3: Create an automatic deployment rule to deploy the Office 365 client applications
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, if necessary, on the taskbar, click  **Configuration Manager console**.

2. In the  **Configuration Manager** console, click the **Software Library** workspace, and then click **Office 365 Client Management**.

3. Create an automatic deployment rule with the following settings: 

  - Name:  **Office 365 Updates**

  - Template:  **Office 365 Client Updates**

  - Collection:  **Office 365 Deferred Channel**

  - Create a new Software Update Group: selected

  - Enable the deployment after this rule is run: selected

4. On the  **Software Updates** page, configure the **Property filters** as follows:

  - Date Released or Revised:  **Last 1 month**

  - Product:  **Office 365 Client**

5. Click  **Preview** to determine which updates apply from the most recent synchronization.

6. Create a new deployment package with the following settings:

  - Name:  **O365updates**

  - Package source:  **\\\\LON-CFG\\E$\\source\\O365updates**

  - Distribution point:  **LON-CFG.Adatum.com**

  - Download location:  **Internet**

  - Language:  **English**

7. Refresh the  **Office 365 Client Management** dashboard, and then take note of the **Office 365 Deployments Summary** tile. It should say **No Office 365 Deployments**.



#### Task 4: Create a second deployment for the Office 365 updates automatic deployment rule
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, if necessary, on the taskbar, click  **Configuration Manager console**.

2. In the  **Configuration Manager** console, click the **Software Library** workspace, and then expand **Software Updates**.

3. Click  **Automatic Deployment Rules**, and then add a deployment to the  **Office 365 Updates** automatic deployment rule with the following settings:

  - Collection:  **Office 365 Current Channel**

  - Enable the deployment after this rule is run: selected

  - Software available time:  **As soon as possible**

  - User notification:  **Display in Software Center and show all notifications**

  - Alerts:  **Generate an alert when the following conditions are met**



#### Task 5: Prepare for the next module
  
- At the end of the lab, shut down the virtual machines. However, do not revert the virtual machines because you will need the current state for later modules.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have configured software updates to support Office 365.



## 
  
**Question** 
You deployed the Office 365 ProPlus client to Configuration Manager workstations. However, the  **Office 365 Client Management** dashboard does not show the status of the deployment. What do you need to do?

**Question** 
You want to enable the management of the Office 365 client agent only on specific workstations. What should you do?



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  