# Module 7: Device platform enrollment by using Configuration Manager MDM
# Lab A: Enrolling Windows devices into a hybrid mobile device management (MDM) environment
  
### Scenario
  
 Now that you have configured the hybrid MDM solution, you must enroll the devices that you want to manage. You start by enabling Windows device management. You plan to enroll both a Windows 10 computer and a Windows 10 Mobile device. You also plan to use Azure AD, and therefore will enable automatic enrollment into MDM for any devices that join Azure AD.


### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Enable Windows device management in Configuration Manager.

- Configure automatic MDM enrollment for Windows 10.

- Enroll Windows 10 and Windows 10 Mobile devices for MDM.

>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Intune and other cloud services referenced in the course. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup
  
 Estimated time: 45 minutes

Virtual machines:  **20703-2A-LON-DC1-A**,  **20703-2A-LON-CFG-A**,  **20703-2A-MOBILE**, and  **20703-2A-DEVICE1**

 User name:  **Adatum\\Administrator**

 Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

 For this lab, you will use the available virtual machine environment. Before you begin the lab, you must complete the following steps:

1. On the host computer, start  **Microsoft Hyper-V Manager**.

2. In  **Hyper-V Manager**, click  **20703-2A-LON-DC1-A**, and then in the Actions pane, click  **Start**.

3. In the Actions pane, click  **Connect**. Wait until the virtual machine starts. 

4. Sign in by using the following credentials: 

  - User name:  **Administrator**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

  - Domain:  **Adatum**

5. Repeat steps 2 through 4 for  **20703-2A-LON-CFG-A**.

6. Repeat steps 2 and 3 for  **20703-2A-MOBILE**.

7. Repeat steps 2 and 3 for  **20703-2A-DEVICE1**. 


 For on-premises virtual machine environments only: Start  **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, which is used to provide Internet access to the virtual machines.

 To complete this lab successfully, you must have completed  _Module 1: Lab A: Preparing for cloud integration, Module 4: Lab A: Preparing Office 365 for application deployment_, and _ Module 6: Lab A: Configuring hybrid MDM._


## Exercise 1: Enabling Windows device management in Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager
  
### Scenario
  
 You have both Windows 10 computers and Windows 10 Mobile devices that you want to manage by using the hybrid MDM environment. You must enable Windows device management for these two platforms. You also decide to configure DNS so that the appropriate name is resolved to simplify the enrollment procedures for users.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Configure domain name system (DNS) CNAME records to simplify user enrollment

2. Configure Windows computers for enrollment

3. Configure Windows Phone devices for enrollment



#### Task 1: Configure domain name system (DNS) CNAME records to simplify user enrollment
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, in  **Server Manager**, open  **DNS Manager**.

2. Create a new CNAME record in the Adatum.com forward lookup zone as follows:

  - Alias name **: EnterpriseEnrollment**

  - Fully qualified domain name (FQDN) for target host **: EnterpriseEnrollment-s.manage.microsoft.com**

3. Close DNS Manager.



#### Task 2: Configure Windows computers for enrollment
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, on the taskbar, click the  **Configuration Manager Console** icon.

2. In the  **Configuration Manager** console, click the **Administration** workspace.

3. In the navigation pane, expand  **Cloud Services**, and then click  **Microsoft Intune Subscriptions**.

4. In the details pane, click  **Microsoft Intune Subscription**.

5. Configure and enable Windows platform enrollment.

>  **Note:** You will not require a code-signing certificate as you will expect users to install the Company Portal app from the Windows Store.


#### Task 3: Configure Windows Phone devices for enrollment
  
1. In the  **Configuration Manager** console, click the **Administration** workspace.

2. In the navigation pane, expand  **Cloud Services**, and then click  **Microsoft Intune Subscriptions**.

3. In the details pane, click  **Microsoft Intune Subscription**.

4. Configure and enable Windows Phone platform enrollment for the Windows Phone 8.1 and Windows 10 Mobile versions.

>  **Note:** You will not require a code-signing certificate as you will expect users to install the Company Portal app from the Windows Store.

>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have enabled Windows device management in Configuration Manager.


## Exercise 2: Configuring automatic MDM enrollment for Windows 10 devices
  
### Scenario
  
 You intend to use Azure AD for device authentication. To simplify MDM tasks for Azure AD-joined devices, you want to enable automatic enrollment. For this pilot task, you will only enable the Sales department for automatic enrollment. 

The main task for this exercise is as follows:

- Configure Azure AD to support automatic MDM enrollment



#### Task 1: Configure Azure AD to support automatic MDM enrollment
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, open Microsoft Internet Explorer, and then browse to  **https://portal.azure.com**. 

2. Sign in with the Microsoft account that you configured in Module 1.

3. In the navigation pane, click  **Azure Active Directory**.

4. On the directory page, under  **MANAGE**, click  **Mobility (MDM and MAM)**.

5. Configure the Intune application to enable automatic enrollment for the  **Sales** group.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have configured automatic MDM enrollment for Windows 10 devices.


## Exercise 3: Enrolling Windows 10 devices into MDM
  
### Scenario
  
 You now need to verify that enrollment works as expected for your Windows 10 computers and Windows 10 Mobile devices. You will enroll both device platforms and verify that you can view device information in Configuration Manager. 

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Enroll a Windows 10 Mobile device

2. Enroll a Windows 10 computer

3. Prepare for the next lab



#### Task 1: Enroll a Windows 10 Mobile device
  
1. Switch to  **20703-2A-MOBILE**.

2. On the Start screen, scroll down, and then click  **All Apps**.

3. On the  **All Apps** page, scroll down, and then click **Settings**.

4. On the  **Settings** page, click **Accounts**.

5. On the  **Accounts** page, click **Work access**.

6. On the  **Work access** page, click **Enroll in to device management**. Under  **Email address**, type  **Abbi@&lt; _domain_&gt;.onmicrosoft.com**, and then click  **Connect**.

7. On the  **Microsoft Intune Enrollment** page, enter the following information, and then press Enter:

  - Name:  **Ana@&lt; _domain_&gt;.onmicrosoft.com**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

8. On the  **Work access** page, click **done**.

9. Under  **Enroll in to device management**, notice that  **Adatum Corporation** is listed.

10. Click  **Adatum Corporation**, and then click the  **Sync** button.

11. To go back to the Start screen, press F2.

12. On the Start screen, click the  **Store** tile.

13. Click the search button, type  **Company Portal**, and then press Enter.

14. In the  **Apps** list, click **Company Portal**, and then click  **Get**.

15. On the  **credentials** page, provide the Microsoft Account credentials that you created in Module 1.
>  **Note:** Ana would typically have her own credentials, but for this lab, you will use the credentials that you created in Module 1.
16. On the  **Sign in to this device using your Microsoft account** page, click **Just sign in to this app**.

17. After the app is installed, click  **Launch**.

18. On the  **Let's get you signed in** page, under **Work or school account**, type  **ana@&lt; _domain_&gt;.onmicrosoft.com**, and then press Enter.

19. On the  **Enter password** page, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then press Enter.

20. On the  **Add this account to windows** page, click **Yes**.

21. On the  **You're all set** page, click **Done**.

22. On the  **Terms** page, click **Accept**. 

23. Verify that the Company Portal app displays the  **Adatum Corporation** home page.



#### Task 2: Enroll a Windows 10 computer
  
1. Switch to  **LON-DEVICE1**.

2. On  **LON-DEVICE1**, sign in as  **Allan** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

3. Click  **Start**, and then click  **Settings**.

4. On the  **Windows Settings** page, click **Accounts**.

5. Click  **Access work or school**.

6. Under  **Connect to work or school**, click  **Connect**.

7. On the  **Set up a work or school account** page, in the text box, type **Allan@&lt; _domain_&gt;.onmicrosoft.com**, and then press Enter. 

8. On the  **Enter password** page, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then press Enter.

9. On the  **Adatum Corporation Terms** page, click **Accept**.

10. On the  **Help us protect your account** page, click **Set it up now**.

11. On the  **Verify your identity** page, select **Text message**, and then provide a mobile phone number that can receive text messages and then click  **Next**. You will receive a verification code on your device to proceed with registration.

12. After you enter the verification code, click  **Next**.

13. On the  **Create a PIN** page, click **Create PIN**.

14. In the  **Set up a PIN** dialog box, type **2434** in both the **New PIN** and **Confirm PIN** boxes, and then click **OK**.

15. On the  **Almost done** page, click **Next**.

16. On the Windows Security dialog box, type  **Pa55w.rd** and then click **OK**.

17. Under the  **Connect** button, click the **Work or school account** icon that contains Allan's email address, and then click **Info**. Notice the Management Server Address and Last Attempted Sync values.

18. To perform a manual sync, click  **Sync**.

19. Close the  **Settings** dialog box.

20. On the taskbar, click the  **Store** icon.

21. In the Store window, in the  **Search** box, type **Company Portal**, and then press Enter.

22. In the  **Apps** list, click **Company Portal**, and then click  **Get**. The Company Portal installs.

23. After the installation, click  **Launch**. The Company Portal opens. 

24. Close the  **Company Portal** and **Store** windows.



#### Task 3: Prepare for the next lab
  
- At the end of the lab, do not revert the virtual machines as you will need their current state for the next lab.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have enrolled Windows 10 devices into MDM.



## 
  
**Question** 
Your manager is wondering if you need to obtain an application enrollment token for your Windows 10 mobile phones. What do you tell your manager?

**Question** 
During the lab, you installed the Company Portal app by using the Windows Store. What are some alternative ways to deploy and install the app on devices?



# Lab B: Enrolling Android devices into a hybrid MDM environment
  
### Scenario
  
 Your MDM strategy also includes managing Android devices. You need to enable your MDM solution to support both classic and Android for Work enrollment.


### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Enable Android enrollment for hybrid MDM using Configuration Manager and Intune.

- Enroll an Android device into MDM.

>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Intune and other cloud services referenced in the course. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup
  
 Estimated time: 30 minutes

Virtual machines:  **20703-2A-LON-DC1-A**,  **20703-2A-LON-CFG-A**, and  **20703-2A-Android**

 User name:  **Adatum\\Administrator**

 Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

 For this lab, you will use the available virtual machine environment. Before you begin the lab, you must complete the following steps:

1. On the host computer, start  **Hyper-V Manager**.

2. In  **Hyper-V Manager**, click  **20703-2A-LON-DC1-A**, and then in the Actions pane, click  **Start**.

3. In the Actions pane, click  **Connect**. Wait until the virtual machine starts. 

4. Sign in by using the following credentials: 

  - User name:  **Administrator**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

  - Domain:  **Adatum**

5. Repeat steps 2 through 4 for  **20703-2A-LON-CFG-A**.

6. Repeat steps 2 and 3 for  **20703-2A-Android**.


 For on-premises virtual machine environments only: Start  **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, which is used to provide Internet access for the virtual machines.

 To complete this lab successfully, you must have completed  _Module 1: Lab A: Preparing for cloud integration, Module 4: Lab A: Preparing Office 365 for application deployment_, and _ Module 6: Lab A: Configuring hybrid MDM._


## Exercise 1: Enabling Android enrollment for MDM using Configuration Manager and Microsoft Intune
  
### Scenario
  
 Many users have requested to be allowed to use their own personal Android devices for work tasks. You need to enable the hybrid MDM solution to support Android enrollment and management. You have decided to configure support for Android for Work profiles so that supported devices can be managed more efficiently.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create a Google admin account to use for Intune MDM services

2. Enable Android device enrollment



#### Task 1: Create a Google admin account to use for Intune MDM services
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, open Internet Explorer, and then browse to  **https://accounts.google.com/SignUp**. 

2. On the  **Create your Google Account** page, fill in the following information:

  - Name:  **Adatum Admin**

  - Choose your username:  **Adatum&lt; _yourinitials_&gt;&lt; _date_&gt;@gmail.com**

  - Password:  Enter a password

>  **Note:** Make sure that you write down the user name that you chose. For example, you can choose a user name in the Adatum _YourInitialsDate_@gmail.com format, such as AdatumCK070717@gmail.com. Be sure to note the password for later use.
3. Under  **Birthday**, enter your birthday by using the  **Month**,  **Day**, and  **Year** fields.

4. Under  **Gender**, select your gender.

5. In the  **Your current email address** text box, type an email address that is assigned to you.

6. Clear the  **Set Google as my default homepage** check box.

7. Click  **Next step**.

8. On the  **Privacy and Terms** page, scroll down, and then click **I AGREE**.

9. On the  **Welcome** page, provide a phone number that accepts text messages and then click **Continue**.

10. On the  **Verify your account** page, provide the verification code and then click **Continue**.

11. Close Internet Explorer.



#### Task 2: Enable Android device enrollment
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, on the taskbar, click the  **Configuration Manager Console** icon.

2. In the  **Configuration Manager** console, click the **Administration** workspace.

3. In the navigation pane, expand  **Cloud Services**, and then click  **Microsoft Intune Subscriptions**.

4. In the details pane, click  **Microsoft Intune Subscription**.

5. On the ribbon, click  **Configure Platforms**, and then click  **Android**.

6. On the  **General** tab, click **Enable Android enrollment**. Click  **OK**.

7. On the ribbon, click  **Configure Platforms**, and then click  **Android for Work**.

8. On the  **General** tab, click **Configure Android for Work in the Intune console**.

9. When the  **Microsoft Intune sign in** page opens, sign in as **Adam@&lt; _domain_&gt;.onmicrosoft.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

10. If necessary, browse to the  **ADMIN** workspace, and then under **Mobile Device Management**, select  **Android for Work**.

11. In the  **Android for Work Mobile Device Management Setup** page, under **Add Android for Work Binding**, click  **Configure**. 

12. When the  **Google Play sign in** page opens, if necessary, provide your Google account credentials, and then click **GET STARTED**.

13. On the  **Organization details** page, type **Adatum**.

14. Select the  **I have read and agree to the managed Google Play agreement** check box, and then click **CONFIRM**.

15. On the  **Set up complete** page, click **COMPLETE REGISTRATION**.

16. When the Intune portal opens, review the Android for Work binding details, and then select the  **Manage all devices as Android** option. (You will choose this option due to the Android emulator limitations, in a production environment, you would choose to manage as Android for Work devices.)

17. Click  **Save**.

18. Close Internet Explorer.

19. In the  **Configuration Manager** console, click **OK** to close the **Microsoft Intune Subscription Properties** dialog box.

20. In the  **Administration** workspace, expand **Cloud Services**, and then click  **Android for Work**.

21. On the ribbon, click  **Sync**. It will take several minutes for the sync to complete. After the sync is complete, you will see an Android for Work entry in the details pane. 

>  **Note:** Note that the sync status may show a Sync Status as Failed, which is acceptable for this task. To address the failed status, you need to approve an app in the Google Play for Work website. You will do this in a later task.

>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have enabled Android enrollment for MDM.


## Exercise 2: Enrolling an Android device into MDM
  
### Scenario
  
 You have configured the Android for Work binding with Intune and have verified that it has synchronized with Configuration Manager. You now want to enroll an Android device into the MDM environment. 

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Enroll an Android device into MDM

2. Prepare for the next lab



#### Task 1: Enroll an Android device into MDM
  
1. Switch to  **20703-2A-Android**.

2. On the Start screen, click the  **apps** icon.

3. On the  **Apps** screen, click **Play Store**.

4. On the  **Add a Google Account** page, click **Existing**.

5. Sign in by using the Google account you created in Exercise 1.
>  **Note:** A user would usually have their own credentials, but for this lab, you will use the credentials that you created in Exercise 1.
6. Click  **OK** to agree to the terms of service and then complete the sign-in procedures.

7. On the  **Google services** page, clear all the check boxes, and then press Enter.

8. On the  **Set up payment info** page, click **NO THANKS**.

9. When the Google Play store opens, in the  **Google Play** search box, type **Company Portal**, and then press Enter.

10. Under  **Apps**, click  **Intune Company Portal**.

11. On the  **Intune Company Portal** page, click **Install**, and then click  **Accept**.

12. At the bottom of the screen, click  **Home page**. Company Portal displays on the home page.

13. On the home page, click  **Company Portal**.

14. On the  **Company Portal sign in** page, click **Sign in**.

15. On the  **Microsoft Intune** page, enter the following, and then click **Sign in**:

  - Name:  **Allan@&lt; _domain_&gt;.onmicrosoft.com**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

16. In the  **Adatum Corporation Company Access Setup** page, click **BEGIN**.

17. On the  **Why enroll your device** page, click **CONTINUE**.

18. On the  **We care about your privacy** page, click **CONTINUE**.

19. On the  **What comes next** page, click **ENROLL**.

20. On the  **Activate device administrator** page, click **Activate**. It will take several minutes for the device to enroll.

21. On the  **Company Access Setup** page, click **CONTINUE**, and then click  **DONE**.



#### Task 2: Prepare for the next lab
  
- At the end of the lab, do not revert the virtual machines as you will need their current state for the next lab.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have enrolled an Android device into MDM.



## 
  
**Question** 
During the Android for Work configuration, you had to bind a Google account to Intune. What was the purpose of this binding process?

**Question** 
In the lab, when you configured the Android for Work binding, a synchronization error displayed in Configuration Manager. How can you fix this error?



# Lab C: Managing mobile devices in hybrid MDM
  
### Scenario
  
 Now that mobile devices are enrolled, you can focus on specific management tasks for each platform. You need to configure compliance settings to ensure that mobile devices are compliant to the latest security policies. You also need to deploy applications to be available in the Company Portal app.


### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Configure compliance settings for MDM device platforms.

- Deploy and manage applications for mobile devices.

- Perform on-demand management for mobile devices.

>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Intune and other cloud services referenced in the course. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup
  
 Estimated time: 30 minutes

Virtual machines:  **20703-2A-LON-DC1-A**,  **20703-2A-LON-CFG-A**,  **20703-2A-Android**,  **20703-2A-MOBILE**, and  **20703-2A-DEVICE1**

 User name:  **Adatum\\Administrator**

 Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

 For this lab, you will use the available virtual machine environment. Before you begin the lab, you must complete the following steps:

1. On the host computer, start  **Hyper-V Manager**.

2. In  **Hyper-V Manager**, click  **20703-2A-LON-DC1-A**, and then in the Actions pane, click  **Start**.

3. In the Actions pane, click  **Connect**. Wait until the virtual machine starts. 

4. Sign in by using the following credentials: 

  - User name:  **Administrator**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

  - Domain:  **Adatum**

5. Repeat steps 2 through 4 for  **20703-2A-LON-CFG-A**.

6. Repeat steps 2 and 3 for  **20703-2A-Android**.

7. Repeat steps 2 and 3 for  **20703-2A-MOBILE**.

8. Repeat steps 2 and 3 for  **20703-2A-LON-DEVICE1**. 


 For on-premises virtual machine environments only: Start  **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, which is used to provide Internet access for the virtual machines.

 To complete this lab successfully, you must have completed  _Module 1: Lab A: Preparing for cloud integration, Module 4: Lab A: Preparing Office 365 for application deployment_, and _ Module 6: Lab A: Configuring hybrid MDM. You also must have completed all previous labs in this module._


## Exercise 1: Configuring compliance settings for devices enrolled into MDM
  
### Scenario
  
 The A. Datum Corporation security department has reported that they have some specific security policies that need to be applied to mobile devices that join the hybrid MDM. You need to ensure that all Windows 10 computers and Windows 10 Mobile devices have a password that is a six-digit PIN and that expires in 30 days. The last five passwords must be remembered. Windows Defender must also be configured to allow real-time monitoring, scan all downloads and removable drives, and update signatures every four hours. For Android devices, a six-digit PIN is required that expires in 30 days and the last five passwords must be remembered. The camera must also be prohibited on all Android devices.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Configure compliance settings for Windows 10 computers and Windows 10 Mobile devices enrolled into MDM

2. Configure compliance settings for Android devices enrolled into MDM

3. Create and deploy a configuration baseline to MDM devices

4. Synchronize policy settings with MDM enrolled devices



#### Task 1: Configure compliance settings for Windows 10 computers and Windows 10 Mobile devices enrolled into MDM
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, on the taskbar, click the  **Configuration Manager Console** icon.

2. In the  **Configuration Manager console**, click the  **Assets and Compliance** workspace.

3. In the navigation pane, expand  **Compliance Settings**, and then click  **Configuration Items**.

4. On the ribbon, click  **Create Configuration Item**. 

5. Use the  **Create Configuration Item Wizard** to create a configuration item as follows:

  - Name:  **Windows 10 Settings**

  - Only supports Windows 10 (64-bit) and Windows 10 Mobile and higher.

  - Requires password settings: 6-digit PIN that expires in 30 days, and must remember the last five passwords.

  - Windows Defender settings: Allow real-time monitoring, scan all downloads and removable drives, update signatures every four hours.



#### Task 2: Configure compliance settings for Android devices enrolled into MDM
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, on the taskbar, click the  **Configuration Manager Console** icon.

2. In the  **Configuration Manager console**, click the  **Assets and Compliance** workspace.

3. In the navigation pane, expand  **Compliance Settings**, and then click  **Configuration Items**.

4. On the ribbon, click  **Create Configuration Item**.

5. Use the  **Create Configuration Item Wizard** to create a configuration item as follows:

  - Name:  **Android Settings**

  - Only supports Android

  - Requires password settings: Six-digit PIN that expires in 30 days and must remember the last five passwords.

  - Camera:  **Prohibited**



#### Task 3: Create and deploy a configuration baseline to MDM devices
  
1. In the  **Configuration Manager console**, click the  **Assets and Compliance** workspace.

2. In the navigation pane, expand  **Compliance Settings**, and then click  **Configuration Baselines**.

3. On the ribbon, click  **Create Configuration Baseline**. 

4. Use the  **Create Configuration Baseline** dialog box to create a configuration baseline with the following settings:

  - Name:  **Mobile Device Baseline**.

  - Configuration items:  **Android Settings** and **Windows 10 Settings**

5. Deploy the baseline with the following options:

  - Selected configuration baselines:  **Mobile Device Baseline**

  - Remediate noncompliant rules when supported:  **Enabled**

  - Device Collections:  **All Mobile Devices**

  - Simple Schedule:  **Run every 1 day**



#### Task 4: Synchronize policy settings with MDM enrolled devices
  
1. In the  **Configuration Manager console**, click the  **Assets and Compliance** workspace.

2. In the navigation pane, click  **Devices**.

3. In the details pane, click  **Allan_Android**.

4. On the ribbon, click  **Remote Device Actions**, and then click  **Send Sync Request**.

5. Repeat steps 3 and 4 for  **Ana_WindowsPhone** and **LON-DEVICE1**.

6. In the details pane, right-click the column headings, and then select  **Sync Request State**. The Sync Request should display as  **Pending**. 

7. Refresh the results pane until the state shows  **Succeeded** for all three mobile devices. It may take a while for the status to update. Continue with the lab and check back later to verify that all devices have synchronized successfully. If the pending status remains after an excessive period of time, restart the MOBILE and LON-DEVICE1 VMs and then click refresh on Configuration Manager Console.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have configured compliance settings for devices enrolled into MDM.


## Exercise 2: Deploying applications to devices enrolled into MDM
  
### Scenario
  
 You have decided to deploy several applications to the mobile devices enrolled in MDM. You need to deploy The Weather Channel app and Microsoft Mahjong to your Windows 10 computers. You also need to install Microsoft Word mobile to the Android devices. The Microsoft Word Mobile app will have an application management policy applied as well.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Deploy Windows Store apps to Windows 10 computers enrolled into MDM

2. Create an Application Management Policy for Android Devices

3. Deploy Google Play apps to Android devices enrolled into MDM



#### Task 1: Deploy Windows Store apps to Windows 10 computers enrolled into MDM
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, on the taskbar, click the  **Configuration Manager Console** icon.

2. In the  **Configuration Manager console**, click the  **Software Library** workspace.

3. In the navigation pane, expand  **Application Management**, and then click  **Applications**.

4. Right-click  **Applications**, and then click  **Create Application**. 

5. In the  **Create Application Wizard**, on the  **General** page, configure the following settings, and then click **Next**:

  - Automatically detect information about this application from installation files:  **Selected**

  - Type:  **Windows app package (in the Windows Store)**

  - Location: Click  **Browse**, in the Windows Store, search for and select  **The Weather Channel**, and then click  **OK**.

6. On the  **Import Information** page, click **Next**. 

7. On the  **General Information** page, configure the following, and then click **Next**:

  - Name:  **The Weather Channel**

8. On the  **Summary** page, click **Next**.

9. On the  **Completion** page, click **Close**.

10. In the results pane, click  **The Weather Channel**, and then on the ribbon, click  **Deploy**. 

11. In the  **Deploy Software Wizard**, on the  **General** page, next to **Collection**, click  **Browse**. 

12. On the  **Select Collection** page, click **Adatum MDM Users**, and then click  **OK**.

13. On the  **General** page, click **Next**.

14. On the  **Content** page, click **Next**.

15. On the  **Deployment Settings** page, configure the following settings, and then click **Next**.

  - Action:  **Install**

  - Purpose:  **Available**

16. On the  **Scheduling** page, click **Next**.

17. On the  **User Experience** page, click **Next**.

18. On the  **Alerts** page, click **Next**.

19. On the  **Summary** page, click **Next**.

20. On the  **Completion** page, click **Close**.

21. Repeat steps 4-20 to deploy another app as follows:

  - Name:  **Microsoft Mahjong**

  - Action:  **Install**

  - Purpose:  **Required**



#### Task 2: Create an Application Management Policy for Android Devices
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, on the taskbar, click the  **Configuration Manager Console** icon.

2. In the  **Configuration Manager console**, click the  **Software Library** workspace.

3. In the navigation pane, expand  **Application Management**, and then click  **Application Management Policies**.

4. Right-click  **Application Management Policies**, and then click  **Create Application Management Policy**.

5. In the  **Create Application Management Policy Wizard**, on the  **General** page, configure the following settings, and then click **Next**:

  - Name:  **Word Mobile Policy for Android**

6. On the  **Policy Type** page, configure the following settings, and then click **Next**:

  - Platform:  **Android**

  - Policy Type:  **General**

7. On the  **Android Policy** page, configure the following settings, and then click **Next**.

  - Require simple PIN for access:  **No**

8. On the  **Summary** page, click **Next**.

9. On the  **Completion** page, click **Close**.



#### Task 3: Deploy Google Play apps to Android devices enrolled into MDM
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, on the taskbar, click the  **Configuration Manager Console** icon.

2. In the  **Configuration Manager console**, click the  **Software Library** workspace.

3. In the navigation pane, expand  **Application Management**, and then click  **Applications**.

4. Right-click  **Applications**, and then click  **Create Application**.

5. In the  **Create Application Wizard**, on the  **General** page, configure the following settings, and then click **Next**:

  - Automatically detect information about this application from installation files:  **Selected**

  - Type:  **App Package for Android on Google Play**

  - Location: Click  **Browse** and then in Google Play, search for and select **Microsoft Word**, and then click  **OK**.

6. On the  **Import Information** page, click **Next**. 

7. On the  **General Information** page, configure the following settings, and then click **Next**:

  - Name:  **Microsoft Word**

  - Publisher:  **Microsoft**

8. On the  **Summary** page, click **Next**.

9. On the  **Completion** page, click **Close**.

10. In the results pane, click  **Microsoft Word** and then on the ribbon, click **Deploy**.

11. In the  **Deploy Software Wizard**, on the  **General** page, next to **Collection**, click  **Browse**. 

12. On the  **Select Collection** page, click **Adatum MDM Users**, and then click  **OK**.

13. On the  **General** page, click **Next**.

14. On the  **Content** page, click **Next**.

15. On the  **Deployment Settings** page, configure the following settings, and then click **Next**.

  - Action:  **Install**

  - Purpose:  **Available**

16. On the  **Scheduling** page, click **Next**.

17. On the  **User Experience** page, click **Next**.

18. On the  **Alerts** page, click **Next**.

19. On the  **Application Management** page, verify that **Word Mobile Policy for Android** is selected and then click **Next**.

20. On the  **Summary** page, click **Next**.

21. On the  **Completion** page, click **Close**.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have deployed applications to devices enrolled into MDM.


## Exercise 3: Performing on-demand management on devices enrolled into MDM
  
### Scenario
  
 You have been asked to perform a wipe on a lost Android device. A Windows device has also been reported as lost, and so you will perform a remote lock on the device. 

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Retire or wipe an Android device enrolled into MDM

2. Lock a Windows device enrolled into MDM

3. Prepare for the next module



#### Task 1: Retire or wipe an Android device enrolled into MDM
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, on the taskbar, click the  **Configuration Manager Console** icon.

2. In the  **Configuration Manager console**, click the  **Assets and Compliance** workspace.

3. In the navigation pane, click  **Devices**.

4. In the details pane, select  **Allan_Android**.

5. Right-click  **Allan_Android**, point to  **Remote Device Actions**, and then click  **Retire/Wipe**.

6. In the  **Retire from Configuration Manager** dialog box, select **Wipe company content and retire the mobile device from Configuration Manager**, and then click  **OK**.

7. At the  **Configuration Manager** prompt, click **Yes**.

8. Right-click  **Allan_Android**, point to  **Remote Device Actions**, and then click  **Send Sync Request**.



#### Task 2: Lock a Windows device enrolled into MDM
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, on the taskbar, click the  **Configuration Manager Console** icon.

2. In the  **Configuration Manager console**, click the  **Assets and Compliance** workspace.

3. In the navigation pane, click  **Devices**.

4. In the details pane, select  **Ana_WindowsPhone**.

5. Right-click  **Ana_WindowsPhone**, point to  **Remote Device Actions**, and then click  **Remote Lock**. Click  **Yes**.



#### Task 3: Prepare for the next module
  
- At the end of the lab, shut down the virtual machines. However, do not revert the virtual machines as you will need the current state for later modules.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have performed on-demand management on devices enrolled into MDM.



## 
  
**Question** 
You need to create a configuration item setting for a specific mobile device. How can you be sure that the setting is compatible with the targeted mobile device?

**Question** 
In the lab, after you configured apps to be available to the mobile device user, where would the user find the available apps?



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  