# Module 1: Extending the Configuration Manager infrastructure to support Internet-based and mobile devices
# Lab A: Preparing for cloud integration
  
### Scenario
  
 Your organization is in the process of extending your existing infrastructure to support cloud-based services and MDM. When setting up the Azure subscription, you want to ensure that you do not have to configure a set of parallel user accounts. Directory syncing enables users to utilize one set of credentials to authenticate against on-premises Active Directory and Azure AD. Your first step is to sign up for an Azure subscription and to synchronize your Active Directory accounts with the cloud-based service.


### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you should be able to:

- Activate an Azure subscription.

- Configure and enable directory syncing.

>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Intune and other cloud services referenced in the course. Microsoft Learning updated the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup
  
 Estimated time: 30 minutes

Virtual machine:  **20703-2A-LON-DC1-A**

 User name:  **Adatum\\Administrator**

 Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

 For this lab, you will use the available VM environment. Before you begin the lab, complete the following steps:

1. On the host computer, start Hyper-V Manager.

2. In Hyper-V Manager, click  **20703-2A-LON-DC1-A**, and then in the Actions pane, click  **Start**.

3. In the Actions pane, click  **Connect**. Wait until the VM starts.

4. Sign in by using the following credentials:

  - User name:  **Administrator**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

  - Domain:  **Adatum**

5.  **For on-premises VM environments only:** Start **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, which provides Internet access for the VMs.


 In all tasks:

- When you see references to  _directory_.onmicrosoft.com, replace  _directory_ with the unique name that you created in Task 2 of Exercise 1, "Activating an Azure trial subscription," of the lab in this module.

- When you see references to the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure trial subscription, you should use the Microsoft account that you created in Task 1 of Exercise 1, "Activating an Azure trial subscription," of the lab in this module.



## Exercise 1: Activating an Azure trial subscription
  
### Scenario
  
 To activate your Azure trial subscription, you must create a new Microsoft account and use the Azure voucher that your instructor provided.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create a new Microsoft account

2. Activate a trial Azure subscription



#### Task 1: Create a new Microsoft account
  >  **Note:** Further tasks in this exercise require that you have an active Microsoft account without an Azure subscription assigned to it. If you do not want to use your private Microsoft account, if you do not have an account, or if you already have an Azure subscription, please follow the steps in this task to create a new Microsoft account.

1. On  **LON-DC1**, start Internet Explorer, and then browse to  **login.live.com**.

2. Click the  **Create one!** link, and then use the wizard to create a new Microsoft account.

>  **Note:** Make sure that you write down the user name that you chose. For example, you can choose a user name in the _YourInitials-MMDDYY@outlook.com_ format, such as DJ-060815@outlook.com. Make sure to note the password that you select. We recommend that you type your working email address in the **Alternate email address** text box.


#### Task 2: Activate a trial Azure subscription
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, open a new tab in Internet Explorer, and then browse to the  **Try Microsoft Azure Pass** webpage athttp://aka.ms/cu92vo.

2. When the page opens, click  **Start**.

3. On the  **Azure Pass** page, use the user ID that you configured in the previous task. Verify that you are using the correct account, and then click **Confirm Microsoft Account**.

4. Enter the promo code that your instructor provided, click  **Claim Promo Code**, and then click  **Activate**.

5. On the  **Sign up** page, provide your Microsoft account information, phone number, agreement, and then click **Sign up**.

6. Click  **get started with your Azure subscription**, and then verify that a new Azure Portal opens. At the Welcome prompt, click  **Maybe later**.

7. In the navigation pane, click  **Azure Active Directory**.

8. In the Azure Active Directory blade, under  **MANAGE**, click  **Custom domain names**.

9. Take note of your domain name in the form of  **&lt; _domain_&gt;.onmicrosoft.com**.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully created a new Microsoft account and activated a trial version of Azure.


## Exercise 2: Configuring and enabling directory syncing
  
### Scenario
  
 To establish directory syncing between your on-premises Active Directory and Azure AD, you have to implement and configure Azure AD Connect. First, you will change the UPN for your users in AD DS so they can use a custom Azure-based domain. After that, you will establish and verify directory syncing between AD DS and Azure AD.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Configure the UPN and create a sync account 

2. Install and configure Azure AD Connect

3. Verify synchronization

4. Prepare for the next lab



#### Task 1: Configure the UPN and create a sync account
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, open Server Manager, open Active Directory Domains and Trusts, and then add  ** _directory_.onmicrosoft.com** as an alternate UPN suffix.

2. Start  **Windows PowerShell** with administrator privileges, and then update the UPN on every user in AD DS with "@ _directory_.onmicrosoft.com" for the domain name. To do this, use the following command. Be sure to replace  "directory" with your unique domain name:

  ```
  Get-ADUser -Filter * -Properties SamAccountName | foreach { Set-ADUser $_ -UserPrincipalName ($_.SamAccountName + "@directory.onmicrosoft.com" )}
  ```

3. If necessary, open Internet Explorer and browse to https://portal.azure.com. Sign in with the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure trial subscription.

4. Use the Azure Portal to create an account for directory syncing:

  - Name the account  **sync@ _directory_.onmicrosoft.com**.

  - Password:  Take note of the password for later use

  - Assign the  **Global administrator** role to the synchronized account.

  - Close Internet Explorer when the account is created.

5. In the address bar, type  **https://portal.azure.com**, and then press Enter.

6. Sign in to Azure by using **sync@ _directory_.onmicrosoft.com**. When prompted, update the password. Be sure to note your password for later use.



#### Task 2: Install and configure Azure AD Connect
  
1. In Internet Explorer open a new tab.

2. On new tab open  **http://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=47594**.

3. On the  **Microsoft Azure Active Directory Connect** page, click **Download**, and then click  **Run**. The  **Microsoft Azure Active Directory Connect** wizard starts.

4. Agree to the license terms, and then choose to customize the installation options as follows:

  - Enable  **Password Hash Synchronization**.

  - Use the  **Sync** account that you created in the previous task to connect to Azure AD.

  - Use the **Adatum\\Administrator** account with the password **Pa55w.rd** to connect to the Adatum Active Directory forest.

  - Ensure that in the  **USER PRINCIPAL NAME** drop-down list, the **userPrincipalName** value is selected.

  - Choose to continue without any verified domains.

  - Choose to sync the following organizational units (OUs):  **IT**,  **Managers**,  **Marketing**,  **Research**, and  **Sales**.

5. Complete the wizard, and then start the configuration. Click  **Exit** when prompted.

6. Objects now begin syncing between your local AD DS and Azure AD. You must wait approximately 10 minutes for this process to complete. Close the  **Internet Explorer** window on **LON-DC1**.



#### Task 3: Verify synchronization
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, open Internet Explorer, and then go to  **https://portal.azure.com**.

2. Sign in with the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure trial subscription.

3. Go to the  **Azure Active Directory** page, click **Users**, and then verify that syncing has occurred by browsing the synced objects on the  **All users** page.

4. Close Internet Explorer.



#### Task 4: Prepare for the next lab
  
- Keep the VMs running for the next lab.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully implemented Azure AD Connect.



## 
  
**Question** 
You need to configure directory syncing between your local Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS) and Azure AD. Which tool would you use to perform this task?

Active Directory Users and Computers

Active Directory Domains and Trusts

DirSync

Azure AD Connect

Active Directory Sites and Services

**Question** 
After a trial run of using Azure AD, users state that they find it difficult to remember their onmicrosoft.com account. What can you do to address this concern?



# Lab B: Implementing PKI for Configuration Manager site systems and clients
  
### Scenario
  
 Your organization is in the process of extending your existing Configuration Manager infrastructure to support Internet-based clients and cloud-based services. You need to configure the site systems with appropriate certificates and deploy client certificates to managed devices. The PKI environment is already in place—you just need to create and enroll the required certificates, and you need to configure the services that are necessary to deploy the certificates.


### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you should be able to:

- Create certificate templates for Configuration Manager services.

- Deploy certificates to Configuration Manager site systems.

>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Intune and other cloud services referenced in the course. Microsoft Learning updated the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup
  
 Estimated time: 30 minutes

Virtual machines:  **20703-2A-LON-DC1-A** and **20703-2A-LON-CFG-A**

 User name:  **Adatum\\Administrator**

 Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

 For this lab, you will use the available VM environment. This lab uses the VMs that you used in the previous lab, which should still be running. If you shut down the VMs from the previous lab, before you begin the lab, complete the following steps:

1. On the host computer, start Hyper-V Manager.

2. In Hyper-V Manager, click  **20703-2A-LON-DC1-A**, and then in the Actions pane, click  **Start**.

3. In the Actions pane, click  **Connect**. Wait until the VM starts.

4. Sign in by using the following credentials:

  - User name:  **Administrator**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

  - Domain:  **Adatum**

5. Repeat steps 2 through 4 for  **20703-2A-LON-CFG-A**.



## Exercise 1: Creating certificate templates for Configuration Manager services
  
### Scenario
  
 In this exercise, you will create a group for the Configuration Manager servers and then create certificate templates for Configuration Manager certificates.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create a Configuration Manager IIS servers group

2. Create a Configuration Manager Web Server certificate template

3. Create a Configuration Manager client certificate template

4. Create a Configuration Manager distribution point client authentication certificate template

5. Create a Configuration Manager mobile device client certificate template

6. Enable the Configuration Manager certificate templates



#### Task 1: Create a Configuration Manager IIS servers group
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, in  **Server Manager**, start  **Active Directory Users and Computers**.

2. In the  **Active Directory Users and Computers** console, in the **Users** container, create a new group named **Configuration Manager IIS Servers**.

3. Add  **LON-CFG** to the **Configuration Manager IIS Servers** group.

4. Close  **Active Directory Users and Computers**.



#### Task 2: Create a Configuration Manager Web Server certificate template
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, in  **Server Manager**, start the  **Certification Authority** console.

2. In the  **Certification Authority** console, right-click the **Certificate Templates** folder, and then click **Manage**. The  **Certificate Templates** console opens.

3. Duplicate the  **Web Server** template, and then on the **Compatibility** tab, ensure that the **Windows Server 2003** option is selected.

4. In the  **Properties of New Template** dialog box:

  - On the  **General** tab, name the template **Configuration Manager Web Server Certificate**.

  - On the  **Subject Name** tab, ensure that the **Supply in the request** option is selected.

  - On the  **Security** tab, remove the **Enroll** permission from the **Domain Admins** and **Enterprise Admins** security groups.

  - On the  **Security** tab, add the **Configuration Manager IIS Servers** group, and then grant the **Configuration Manager IIS Servers** group the **Enroll** permission.



#### Task 3: Create a Configuration Manager client certificate template
  
1. In the  **Certificate Templates** console, duplicate the **Workstation Authentication** template, and then on the **Compatibility** tab, ensure that the **Windows Server 2003** option is selected.

2. In the  **Properties of New Template** dialog box:

  - On the  **General** tab, name the template **Configuration Manager Client Certificate**.

  - On the  **Security** tab, select the **Domain Computers** group, and then add the **Read** and **Autoenroll** permissions. Do not clear the **Enroll** check box.



#### Task 4: Create a Configuration Manager distribution point client authentication certificate template
  
1. In the  **Certificate Templates** console, duplicate the **Workstation Authentication** template, and then on the **Compatibility** tab, ensure that the **Windows Server 2003** option is selected.

2. In the  **Properties of New Template** dialog box:

  - On the  **General** tab, name the template **Configuration Manager Distribution Point Certificate**.

  - On the  **Request Handling** tab, select **Allow private key to be exported**.

  - On the  **Security** tab, remove the **Enroll** permission from the **Domain Admins** and **Enterprise Admins** security groups.

  - On the  **Security** tab, add the **Configuration Manager IIS Servers** group, and then grant the **Configuration Manager IIS Servers** group the **Enroll** permission. Do not clear the **Read** permission.

>  **Note:** This certificate template is based on the **Workstation Authentication** template, which is the same template that the Configuration Manager client certificate uses. However, this template requires the private key to be exportable because you must import the certificate as a file rather than select it from the certificate store.


#### Task 5: Create a Configuration Manager mobile device client certificate template
  
1. In the  **Certificate Templates** console, duplicate the **Authenticated Session** template, and then on the **Compatibility** tab, ensure that the **Windows Server 2003** option is selected.

2. In the  **Properties of New Template** dialog box:

  - On the  **General** tab, name the template **Configuration Manager Mobile Device Certificate**.

  - On the  **Subject Name** tab, ensure that the **Build from this Active Directory information** option is selected, in the **Subject name format** list, select **Common name**, and then clear the  **User principal name (UPN)** check box.

3. Close the  **Certificate Templates** console.



#### Task 6: Enable the Configuration Manager certificate templates
  
1. If necessary, in the navigation pane of the  **Certification Authority** console, expand the **AdatumCA** node, and then click **Certificates Templates**.

2. Enable the following certificates:

  -  **Configuration Manager Client Certificate**

  -  **Configuration Manager Distribution Point Certificate**

  -  **Configuration Manager Mobile Device Certificate**

  -  **Configuration Manager Web Server Certificate**

3. Close the  **Certification Authority** console.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have successfully created a group for the Configuration Manager servers and created the templates for Configuration Manager certificates.


## Exercise 2: Deploying Certificates for Configuration Manager
  
### Scenario
  
 You are going to deploy the certificates to the Configuration Manager infrastructure by using the templates that you created. You will deploy the workstation certificates through a Group Policy Object (GPO) to take advantage of autoenrollment. You will then request the web certificate and distribution point certificate for the Configuration Manager web-based services.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create an autoenrollment GPO

2. Request a Configuration Manager IIS certificate on the management point

3. Request a Configuration Manager client distribution point certificate

4. Assign the Configuration Manager IIS certificate to Web services

5. Deploy certificate profiles to clients

6. Prepare for the next lab



#### Task 1: Create an autoenrollment GPO
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, in  **Server Manager**, click  **Tools**, and then click  **Group Policy Management**.

2. Create and link a GPO named  **Enable Autoenrollment of Certificates** to the **Adatum.com** domain.

3. Edit the  **Enable Autoenrollment of Certificates** GPO.

4. Navigate to the  **Computer Configuration/Policies/Windows Settings/Security Settings/Public Key Policies/Certificate Services Client - Auto-Enrollment** object.

5. Configure the following values for the  **Certificate Services Client - Auto-Enrollment** object:

  - In the  **Configuration Model** list, select **Enabled**.

  - Select the  **Renew expired certificates, update pending certificates, and remove revoked certificates** check box.

  - Select the  **Update certificates that use certificate templates** check box.

6. Close the  **Group Policy Management Editor** window and the **Group Policy Management Console**.



#### Task 2: Request a Configuration Manager IIS certificate on the management point
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, restart the server.

2. Wait for the VM to restart, and then sign in as  **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w\.rd**.

3. Click  **Start**, type  **certlm.msc**, and then in the results list, click  **certlm.msc**.

4. In the  **certlm** window, expand **Certificates (Local Computer)**, expand  **Personal**, and then click  **Certificates**.

5. Right-click  **Certificates**, and then select the  **Request New Certificate** option.

6. In the  **Certificate Enrollment** wizard, request a new certificate by using the following information:

  - On the  **Request Certificates** page, select the **Configuration Manager Web Server Certificate** check box, and then click **More information is required to enroll for this certificate. Click here to configure settings**.

  - On the  **Subject** tab, in the **Alternative name** area, in the **Type** list, select **DNS**, in the  **Value** text box, type **LON-CFG.Adatum.com**, and then click  **Add**.

  - On the  **General** tab, in the **Friendly name** text box, type **Configuration Manager Web Services**.

  - Complete the request, wait until the certificate installs, and then click  **Finish**.



#### Task 3: Request a Configuration Manager client distribution point certificate
  
1. In the  **certlm** window, under the **Personal** folder, right-click **Certificates**, point to  **All Tasks**, and then select the  **Request New Certificate** option.

2. In the  **Certificate Enrollment** wizard, request a new certificate by using the following information:

  - On the  **Request Certificates** page, select the **Configuration Manager Distribution Point Certificate** check box, and then click **Enroll**.

  - Complete the request, wait until the certificate installs, and then click  **Finish**.

3. In the  **certlm** window, expand **Personal**, and then select  **Certificates**.

4. Select the certificate that has  **Configuration Manager Distribution Point Certificate** on the **Certificate Template** column, right-click the certificate, and then select **Export**. The  **Certificate Export** wizard opens.

5. In the  **Certificate Export** wizard, use the following information to export the certificate:

  - On the  **Export Private Key** page, select **Yes, export the private key**.

  - On the  **Export File Format** page, ensure that the **Personal Information Exchange - PKCS #12 (.PFX)** option is selected.

  - On the  **Security** page, type **Pa55w.rd** in the **Password** and **Confirm password** text boxes.

  - On the  **File to Export** page, in the **File name** text box, type **C:\\ConfigMgrDPCertificate.pfx**.

  - Complete the export of the certificate.

6. Select the certificate that has  **Configuration Manager Distribution Point Certificate** on the **Certificate Template** column, right-click the certificate, and then click **Delete.**

7. Close the  **certlm** window.



#### Task 4: Assign the Configuration Manager IIS certificate to Web services
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, open  **Server Manager**, and then open  **Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager**.

2. Expand  **LON-CFG (ADATUM\\Administrator)**, expand  **Sites**, right-click  **Default Web Site**, and then click  **Edit Bindings**.

3. In the  **Site Bindings** dialog box, edit the **https** entry, in the **SSL certificate** list, select the **Configuration Manager Web Services** certificate, and then click **OK**.

4. Close  **Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager**, and then close  **Server Manager**.



#### Task 5: Deploy certificate profiles to clients
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, open File Explorer.

2. Copy the  **\\\\LON-DC1\\CertEnroll\\LON-DC1.Adatum.com_AdatumCA.crt** file to the desktop.

3. Open the  **Configuration Manager** console.

4. On the  **Assets and Compliance** workspace, go to **Certificate Profiles**, and then create a certificate profile.

5. Name the profile  **AdatumEnterpriseRootCA**, and then set the profile type to  **Trusted CA certificate**.

6. Import the certificate that you copied to the desktop, and then ensure that it will be placed in the  **Computer certificate store - Root** location.

7. Configure the profile for all supported platforms.

8. Deploy the certificate profile to the  **All Desktop and Server Clients** collection.



#### Task 6: Prepare for the next lab
  
- Keep the VMs running for the next lab.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have successfully issued Configuration Manager certificates.



## 
  
**Question** 
On which existing certificate template is the  **Distribution Point** certificate template based? Why do you need to create a new certificate template?

**Question** 
Which Configuration Manager functionality could you use to deploy a partner organization's enterprise root certification authority (CA) certificate to Configuration Manager clients that are members of your organization's Active Directory forest?



# Lab C: Configuring cloud-based distribution points
  
### Scenario
  
 You need to configure content access for mobile and Internet-based devices. You decide to implement a cloud-based distribution point. You have already configured PKI and subscribed to Azure. You need to configure any additional certificates, and then implement the cloud-based distribution point within Azure.


### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you should be able to configure a cloud-based distribution point.
>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Intune and other cloud services referenced in the course. Microsoft Learning updated the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup
  
 Estimated time: 30 minutes

Virtual machines:  **20703-2A-LON-DC1-A** and **20703-2A-LON-CFG-A**

 User name:  **Adatum\\Administrator**

 Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

 For this lab, you will use the available VM environment. This lab uses the VMs that you used in the previous lab, which should still be running. If you shut down the VMs from the previous lab, before you begin the lab, complete the following steps:

1. On the host computer, start  **Hyper-V Manager**.

2. In Hyper-V Manager, click  **20703-2A-LON-DC1-A**, and then in the Actions pane, click  **Start**.

3. In the Actions pane, click  **Connect**. Wait until the VM starts. 

4. Sign in by using the following credentials: 

  - User name:  **Administrator**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

  - Domain:  **Adatum**

5. Repeat steps 2 and 4 for  **20703-2A-LON-CFG-A**.

6.  **For on-premises VM environments only:** Start **MT17B-WS2016-NAT** which is used to provide Internet access for the VMs.



## Exercise 1: Creating and exporting an Azure management certificate for cloud-based distribution points
  
### Scenario
  
 To support cloud-based distribution points, you need to create and issue a certificate that will be used as a Azure management certificate. This certificate will also export to a .cer file and to a .pfx file for Azure and Configuration Manage to use. You decide to name the certificate  **clouddp1.cloudapp.net**.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create and issue the Azure management certificate

2. Request the Azure management certificate

3. Export the Azure management certificate



#### Task 1: Create and issue the Azure management certificate
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, from  **Server Manager**, start the  **Certification Authority** console.

2. In the  **Certification Authority** console, right-click the **Certificate Templates** folder, and then click **Manage**. The  **Certificate Templates console** opens.

3. Duplicate the  **Web Server** template, and then on the **Compatibility** tab, ensure that the **Windows Server 2003** option is selected.

4. In the  **Properties of New Template** dialog box:

  - On the  **General** tab, name the template **Microsoft Azure Management Certificate**.

  - Click the  **Request Handling** tab, and then select the check box next to **Allow private key to be exported**.

  - On the  **Security** tab, remove the **Enroll** permission from the **Enterprise Admins** security group.

  - On the  **Security** tab, add the **Configuration Manager IIS Servers** group, and then grant the **Configuration Manager IIS Servers** group the **Enroll** permission.

5. Close the  **Certificate Templates** console.

6. If necessary, in the navigation pane of the  **Certification Authority** console, expand the **AdatumCA** node, and then click **Certificates Templates**.

7. Enable the certificate named  **Microsoft Azure Management Certificate**.

8. Close the  **Certification Authority** console.



#### Task 2: Request the Azure management certificate
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, click  **Start**, type  **certlm.msc**, and then click  **certlm.msc**.

2. In the  **certlm** window, expand **Certificates (Local Computer)**, expand  **Personal**, and then click  **Certificates**.

3. Right-click  **Certificates**, and then select the  **Request New Certificate** option.

4. In the  **Certificate Enrollment** wizard, request a new certificate by using the following information:

  - On the  **Request Certificates** page, select the **Microsoft Azure Management Certificate** check box, and then click **More information is required to enroll for this certificate. Click here to configure settings**.

  - On the  **Subject** tab, in the **Subject name** area, in the **Type** list, select **Common name**, in the  **Value** text box, type **clouddp1.cloudapp.net**, and then click  **Add**.

  - On the  **Subject** tab, in the **Alternative name** area, in the **Type** list, select **DNS**, in the  **Value** text box, type **clouddp1.cloudapp.net**, and then click  **Add**.

  - Complete the request, wait until the certificate installs, and then click  **Finish**.



#### Task 3: Export the Azure management certificate
  
1. In the  **certlm** window, expand **Personal**, and then select  **Certificates**.

2. Select the certificate named  **clouddp1.cloudapp.net**, right-click the certificate, click  **All Tasks**, and then select  **Export**. The  **Certificate Export** wizard opens.

3. In the  **Certificate Export** wizard, use the following information to export the certificate:

  - On the  **Export Private Key** page, select **Yes, export the private key**.

  - On the  **Export File Format** page, ensure that the **Personal Information Exchange - PKCS #12 (.PFX)** option is selected.

  - On the  **Security** page, type **Pa55w.rd** in the **Password** and **Confirm password** text boxes.

  - On the  **File to Export** page, in the **File name** text box, type **C:\AzureCertificate.pfx**.

  - Complete the export of the certificate.

4. Repeat steps 1 through 3, but on the  **Export Private Key** page, select **No, do not export the private key**. Configure the following options:

  - For the  **Export File Format**, select  **DER encoded binary X.509 (.CER)**.

  - Name the file  **C:\\AzureCertificate.cer**.

5. Close the  **certlm** window.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have successfully created and exported the Azure management certificate to be used for cloud-based distribution points.


## Exercise 2: Setting up Azure and creating a cloud-based distribution point
  
### Scenario
  
 To install a cloud-based distribution point, you first need to upload the Azure management certificate by using the Azure Management portal. You will then use Configuration Manager to create the cloud-based distribution point in Azure.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Upload the Azure management certificate to Azure

2. Install a cloud-based distribution point

3. Distribute content to the cloud-based distribution point

4. Stop the cloud-based distribution point service

5. Prepare for the next module



#### Task 1: Upload the Azure management certificate to Azure
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, open Internet Explorer, and then browse to  **https://portal.azure.com**. Sign in with the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure trial subscription.

2. On the  **All Services** page, click **Subscriptions**.

3. On the  **Subscriptions** page, click your subscription and then click **Management certificates**.

4. Upload the new management certificate from **\\\\LON-CFG\\C$\\Azurecertificate.cer**.

5. Verify that the certificate has uploaded, and then make note of the  **SUBSCRIPTION ID**. Write down the subscription ID because you will need it for the next task.

6. Close Internet Explorer.



#### Task 2: Install a cloud-based distribution point
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, start the  **Configuration Manager** console from the taskbar.

2. On the  **Administration** workspace, select the **Cloud Distribution Points** node.

3. Create a cloud distribution point by using the following options:

  - Subscription ID: Provide the subscription ID that you noted in the previous task.

  - Management Certificate:  **C:\\Azurecertificate.pfx** (password is **Pa55w.rd**)

  - Certificate file:  **C:\\Azurecertificate.pfx** (password is **Pa55w.rd**)

  - Alerts:
Storage alert threshold (GB):  **100**

Monthly transfer alert threshold (GB):  **50**

4. Monitor the progress by opening the  **CloudMgr.log** file at **C:\\Program Files\\Microsoft Configuration Manager\\Logs**.

5. In the  **Configuration Manager** console, with **Cloud Distribution Points** selected, verify that **clouddp1.cloudapp.net** shows a status of **Ready**. This might take up to 10 minutes.

6. Open Internet Explorer, and then browse to https://portal.azure.com. Sign in with the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure trial subscription.

7. In the Azure Portal, in the navigation pane, click  **All resources**. Make note of the  **Storage account (classic)** and **Cloud service (classic)** objects. These both relate to the cloud-based distribution point.

8. Click the  **Cloud service (classic)** object.

9. On the  **Cloud service (classic)** page, in the details pane, make note of the Site URL and Public IP addresses. The Site URL should be in the form of http:// _GUID_.cloudapp.net.



#### Task 3: Distribute content to the cloud-based distribution point
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, switch to the  **Configuration Manager** console.

2. From the  **Applications** node on the **Software Library** workspace, distribute the XML Notepad 2007 application with the following options:

  - Distribution Point:  **CLOUDDP1.CLOUDAPP.NET**

3. On the  **Monitoring** workspace, monitor the distribution status of the XML Notepad 2007 application.



#### Task 4: Stop the cloud-based distribution point service
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, switch to the  **Configuration Manager** console.

2. On the  **Administration** workspace, select the **Cloud Distribution Points** node.

3. In the details pane, right-click  **clouddp1.cloudapp.net**, and then click  **Stop Service**. Verify that the status shows  **Stopped**.

4. Close all open windows on  **LON-CFG**.

>  **Note:** You perform this task to minimize the resource cost that is allocated against your Azure trial subscription.


#### Task 5: Prepare for the next module
  
- At the end of the lab, shut down the VMs. However, do not revert the VMs, because you will need the current state for later modules.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have successfully set up Azure and created a cloud-based distribution point.



## 
  
**Question** 
You have configured a cloud-based distribution point; however, your clients can't seem to resolve the name of the cloud-based service. What should you do?

**Question** 
To keep the cost of a cloud-based distribution point manageable, you need to ensure that only a maximum of 100 GB is stored on the cloud service. How can you ensure this?



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  