# Lab Answer Key:  Module 3: Managing Microsoft Store for Business apps by using Configuration Manager
# Lab A: Setting up and managing Microsoft Store for Business
  
## Exercise 1: Signing up for Microsoft Store for Business
  
#### Task 1: Sign up for Microsoft Store for Business and perform initial configuration
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, click  **Internet Explorer** on the taskbar.

2. In Internet Explorer, type https://www.microsoft.com/business-store in the Address bar, and then press Enter.

3. In the top-right corner of Internet Explorer, click the  **Sign in** link. Be aware that the page is localized based on your location.

4. On the  **Microsoft Store** page, in the **someone@example.com** text box, type **Sync@_YourInitialsMMDDYY_outlook.onmicrosoft.com**, in the **Password** text box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then click **Sign in**.
>  **Note:** If you followed the suggestion in Module 1, "Extending the Configuration Manager infrastructure to support Internet-based and mobile devices," you created a Microsoft account in the _YourInitials-MMDDYY_@outlook.com format. For example, if your name is Don Funk and you created a Microsoft account on September 18, 2017, your account should be DF-091817@outlook.com. In this case, you should sign in as  **Sync@DF091817outlook.onmicrosoft.com**.

5. On the  **Microsoft Store for Business** page, click **Manage**. On the **Microsoft Store for Business and your data** page, select the check box and then click **Accept**. On the **What's new for Microsoft Store for Business**, click **Got it**.

6. In the navigation pane, click  **Products &amp; services**. In the details pane, verify that the  **Sway**,  **OneNote**,  **PowerPoint Mobile**,  **Excel Mobile**, and  **Word Mobile** apps show a status of Adding to your private store.
>  **Note:** When you sign up for Microsoft Store for Business, the portal automatically adds Microsoft Sway, Microsoft OneNote, Microsoft PowerPoint Mobile, Microsoft Excel Mobile, and Microsoft Word Mobile to your private store; it might take up to 24 hours for the apps to appear in the private store. These apps are automatically available for you to deploy to users.
7. In the navigation pane, click  **Billing**. In the details pane, click the  **Payment methods** tab, click **Add a payment method**, review how you can add credit card or debit card information, click  **Cancel**.
>  **Note:** You add credit card information to Microsoft Store for Business so that in the future you don't need to provide this information each time you want to purchase an app.
8. In the navigation pane, click  **Settings**. In the details pane, on the **Shop** tab, enable the **Show offline apps** option.

9. Verify that the second option from the left on the toolbar below  **Microsoft Store for Business** is **Private Store**.

10. In the details pane, click the  **Distribute** tab. In the **Private store** section, click **Change**, in the  **Display name** text box, click **x** to remove **Default Directory**, type  **Adatum Store**, and then click  **Save**.

11. Verify that the second option from the left on the toolbar below  **Microsoft Store for Business** is now **Adatum Store**. This is your private store.

12. In the  **Settings** details pane, click the **Devices** tab, and then review where you can configure Device Guard signer policies.
>  **Note:** When configured, these policies allow apps from Microsoft Store for Business to run on a device that is protected by Device Guard.

>  **Result**: After finishing this exercise, you should have successfully signed up for Microsoft Store for Business and performed initial configuration of the store.


## Exercise 2: Managing Microsoft Store for Business
  
#### Task 1: Work with roles in Microsoft Store for Business
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, in Internet Explorer, on the  **Microsoft Store for Business** page, in the navigation pane, click **Permissions**.

2. In the details pane, on the  **Roles** tab, click **Assign roles**.

3. In the  **Assign roles to people** dialog box, in the text box, type **Ada**, click  **Ada Russell**, select the  **Admin** check box, and then click **Save**.

4. Click  **Assign roles**, in the text box, type  **Holly**, click  **Holly Spencer**, select the  **Purchaser** check box, and then click **Save**.

5. In the details pane, verify that the  **Sync** user has the **Global Admin** role, **Ada Russell** has the **Admin** role, and **Holly Spencer** has the **Purchaser** role.

6. On  **LON-DC1**, click  **Internet Explorer** on the taskbar.

7. In Internet Explorer, type  **https://www.microsoft.com/business-store** in the address bar, and then press Enter.

8. In the top-right corner of Internet Explorer, click the  **Sign in** link. Be aware that the page is localized based on your location.

9. On the  **Microsoft Store** page, click **Use another account**. In the  **someone@example.com** text box, type **Holly@_YourInitialsMMDDYY_outlook.onmicrosoft.com**, in the **Password** text box type **Pa55w.rd**, and then click **Sign in**.
>  **Note:** If you followed the suggestion in Module 1, "Extending the Configuration Manager infrastructure to support Internet-based and mobile devices," you created a Microsoft account in the _YourInitials-MMDDYY_@outlook.com format. For example, if your name is Don Funk and you created a Microsoft account on September 18, 2017, your account should be DF-091817@outlook.com. In this case, you should sign in as  **Holly@DF091817outlook.onmicrosoft.com**.
10. Maximize the  **Internet Explorer** window, and then click **Manage**. Verify that in the navigation pane, Holly has the **Quotes**,**Products &amp; services**, **Billing, Order history**, **Partners**, and  **Support** options available.
>  **Note:** Holly has the Purchaser role assigned. Purchaser doesn't have access to **Permissions** and **Store settings**.

11. On  **LON-CFG**, in Internet Explorer, on the toolbar below  **Microsoft Store for Business**, click  **Manage**. Verify that in the navigation pane you have the **Quotes**, **Products &amp; services**,  **My Organization**,  **Devices**,  **Billing, Order history**, **Partners**,  **Permissions**,  **Settings**, and  **Support** options available.
>  **Note:** The Sync user is a global administrator and has full permissions in Microsoft Store for Business.
12. In Internet Explorer, click  **Shop for my group**, scroll down to the  **Made by Microsoft** section, and then click **Translator**. Notice that you can see  **License type** options to the top of the **Get the app** button.

13. Click **Get the app**, click the check box to accept the license agreement, and then click **Accept**. Click **Close** at the verification prompt.
14. Next to **Install**, click the ellipsis (…), and then notice that you can see the **Manage** and **Add to private store** options available. Click **Add to private store**.

15. In Internet Explorer, click  **Shop for my group**, scroll down to the  **Apps for work** section, and then click **GoToMeeting**. Click **Get the app**, and then click  **Close**.
>  **Note:** All store apps support online licensing. Only some store apps support offline licensing; the developer who submits the app to the store decides if the app can be offline licensed.
16. In Internet Explorer, click  **Shop for my group**, scroll down to the  **Made by Microsoft** section, click **Fresh Paint**, click  **Get the app**, and then click  **Close**.

17. In Internet Explorer, click  **Shop for my group**, scroll down to the  **Made by Microsoft** section, and then click **Microsoft Remote Desktop**.

18. On the  **Microsoft Remote Desktop** page, in the **License type: Online** drop-down list, select **Offline**. Click  **Get the app**, click  **Close**, click  **Manage**, click  **Products &amp; services**, scroll down the page, and then verify that you can download the Microsoft Remote Desktop package for offline use.

19. On  **LON-DC1**, in Internet Explorer, click  **Manage**, and then in the navigation pane, click  **Products &amp; services**.

20. In the details pane, next to **Translator**, click the ellipse and then click **Assign to people**.

21. In the **Assign to people** dialog box, in the **Enter a name or email address** text box, type **evan**, click  **Evan Norman**, and then click  **Assign**.
>  **Note:** Evan Norman will get an email with a direct link to the Translator app. He can click the link, authenticate to Microsoft Store for Business, and then install the app. Click **Close**.


#### Task 2: Access Microsoft Store for Business
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, click the  **Store** app on the taskbar.
>  **Note:** The built-in administrator cannot run the Store app.
2. On the taskbar, right-click  **Start**, select  **Shut down or sign out**, and then click  **Sign out**.

3. Sign in to  **LON-CL1** as **Adatum\\Maj** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

4. On the taskbar, click the  **Store** app.

5. In the Store app, browse the available apps, and then click one of them. You may get an error stating, "Turn on Windows Update."

6. Close the Store app.

7. On the taskbar, click  **Start**, type  **services**, right-click  **Services**, click  **Run as administrator**, in the  **User Account Control** dialog box, type **Adatum\\Administrator** and **Pa55w.rd** as the password, and then click **Yes**.

8. In the  **Services** console, in the details pane, double-click **Windows Update**.

9. In the  **Windows Update Properties (Local Computer)** dialog box, on the **General** tab, in the **Startup type** drop-down list, select **Manual**, click  **OK**, and then close the  **Services** console.

10. On the taskbar, click the  **Store** app. Click one of the apps, and then verify that you can now view app details.

11. Verify that you can see the following five categories on the toolbar of the Store app:  **Home**,  **Apps**,  **Games**,  **Music**, and  **Movies &amp; TV**.

12. In the Store app, on the toolbar, click the icon that represents a person (the icon to the left of the magnifying glass), and then click  **Sign in**.

13. In the  **Choose an account** dialog box, click **Work or school account**. On the  **Let's get you signed in** page, in the **someone@example.com** text box, type **Maj@_YourInitialsMMDDYY_outlook.onmicrosoft.com**, and then click **Next**.
>  **Note:** If you followed the suggestion in Module 1, "Extending the Configuration Manager infrastructure to support Internet-based and mobile devices," you created a Microsoft account in the _YourInitials-MMDDYY_@outlook.com format. For example, if your name is Don Funk and you created a Microsoft account on September 18, 2017, your account should be DF-091817@outlook.com. In this case, you should sign in as  **Maj@DF091817outlook.onmicrosoft.com**.
14. On the  **Enter password** page, in the **Password** text box, type **Pa55w.rd**, click  **Sign in**, click  **Yes**, and then click  **Done**.

15. In the Store app, on the toolbar, click the icon that represents a person (the icon to the left of the magnifying glass), and then click  **My Library**.
>  **Note:** Although apps added to the private store when you signed up for Microsoft Store for Business, it takes up to 24 hours for apps to appear in the private store. For this reason, your library (private store) is currently empty. After the apps appear, you will get an additional tab in the Store app. This additional tab will be named **Adatum Store**, which you configured in the previous exercise.
16. Close the Store app.

17. On the taskbar, click  **Start**, type  **work or**, click  **Manage work or school account**, verify that the work or school account that you used in the Store app is connected to your Microsoft account, and then close the Settings app.
>  **Note:** A Microsoft Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) account also is referenced as work or school account.
18. On the taskbar, click  **Start**, type  **gpedit.msc**, right-click  **gpedit.msc**, click  **Run as administrator**, in the  **User Account Control** dialog box, type **Adatum\\Administrator** and **Pa55w.rd** as the credentials, and then click **Yes**.

19. In the  **Local Group Policy Editor**, in the navigation pane, in  **Computer Configuration**, expand  **Administrative Templates**, expand  **Windows Components**, and then click  **Store**.

20. In the details pane, double-click the  **Only display the private store within the Windows Store app** setting, read the Help for the setting, click **OK**, and then close the  **Local Group Policy Editor**.
>  **Note:** You didn't configure and test this setting because the private store has not yet updated with the added apps.


#### Task 3: Prepare for the next lab
  
- Keep the VMs running for the next lab.


>  **Result**: After finishing this exercise, you should have successfully assigned users to Microsoft Store for Business roles, obtained several apps, added them to the private store, and tested how to connect to the store from Windows 10 devices.



# Lab B: Deploying Microsoft Store for Business apps by using Configuration Manager
  
## Exercise 1: Setting up syncing with Microsoft Store for Business
  
#### Task 1: Add a web app and a management tool
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, right-click  **Internet Explorer** on the taskbar, and then click **Start InPrivate Browsing**.

2. In Internet Explorer, type  **https://portal.azure.com** in the Address bar, and then press Enter.

3. On the  **Microsoft Azure** page, enter the Microsoft account credentials that you created in Lab A of module 1, and then click **Sign in**.
>  **Note:** If you followed the suggestion in Module 1, "Extending the Configuration Manager infrastructure to support Internet-based and mobile devices," you created a Microsoft account in the _YourInitials-MMDDYY_@outlook.com format. For example, if your name is Don Funk and you created a Microsoft account on September 18, 2017, your account should be DF-091817@outlook.com.
4. In Azure Portal, in the navigation pane, click  **Azure Active Directory**.

5. On the  **Azure Active Directory** blade, in the navigation pane, click **App Registrations**, and then click  **+ New application registration**.

6. On the  **Create** blade, in the **Name** text box, type **Configuration Manager**. Verify that  **Web app / API** is selected as the application type, in the **Sign-on URL** text box, type **http://store.adatum.com**, and then click  **Create**.
>  **Note:** You can type any URL as the sign-in URL. This URL doesn't need to resolve to any external address.
7. On the  **App registrations** blade, in the details pane, click **View all applications**, click **Configuration Manager**, click **Settings**, and then on the  **Settings** blade, click **Keys**.

8. On the  **Keys** blade, in the **Key description** text box, type **Store key**, in the  **Duration** drop-down list, select **In 1 year**, and then click  **Save**. Select the string in the  **VALUE** box that was generated, right-click it, and then click **Copy**.

9. On the taskbar, click  **Start**, type  **notepad**, press Enter, right-click  **Notepad**, click  **Paste**, and then minimize Notepad and Internet Explorer.

10. On the taskbar, click  **Internet Explorer**.

11. On the  **Microsoft Store for Business** page, in the navigation pane, click **Settings**, and then in the details pane, click the  **Distribute** tab.

12. In the details pane, in the  **Management tools** section, click **Add a management tool**.

13. In the  **Add a management tool** dialog box, in the search box, type **configuration**, click  **Configuration Manager**, and then click  **Add**.

14. On the  **Microsoft Store for Business** page, in the **Management tools** section, in the **Configuration Manager** row, click **Activate**.



#### Task 2: Add the Microsoft Store for Business account
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, click  **File Explorer** on the taskbar.

2. In File Explorer, in the navigation pane, expand  **This PC**, select and right-click  **Allfiles (E:)**, select  **New**, click  **Folder**, type  **StoreApps**, and then press Enter.

3. In the details pane, right-click  **StoreApps**, click  **Share with**, and then click  **Specific people**.

4. In the  **File Sharing** dialog box, in the text box, type **Authenticated Users**, click  **Add**, click  **Share**, and then click  **Done**.

5. On the taskbar, click the  **Configuration Manager Console** icon.

6. Click the  **Administration** workspace, expand **Site Configuration**, and then click  **Servers and Site System Roles**.

7. In the details pane, select  **\\\\LON-CFG.Adatum.com**.

8. In the results pane, scroll down and double-click  **Service connection point**.

9. On the  **Service connection point Properties** box, select **Online, persistent connection** and then click **OK**.

10. Click  **Start**, type  **Services** and then press Enter.

11. Restart the  **SMS_EXECUTIVE** service.

12. In the  **Configuration Manager** console, click the **Administration** workspace. In the navigation pane, expand the **Cloud Services** folder, and then click the **Windows Store for Business** node.

13. On the ribbon, click  **Add Windows Store for Business Account**.

14. In the  **Windows Store for Business Configuration Wizard**, on the  **General** page, click **Next**.

15. On the  **Configuration** page, type following information, click **Verify**, and then click  **Next**:

  - Tenant:  ** _YourInitialsMMDDYY_outlook.onmicrosoft.com**
>  **Note:** If you followed the suggestion in Module 1, "Extending the Configuration Manager infrastructure to support Internet-based and mobile devices," you created a Microsoft account in the _YourInitials-MMDDYY_@outlook.com format. For example, if your name is Don Funk and you created a Microsoft account on September 18, 2017, your account should be DF-091817@outlook.com. In this case, you should type  **DF091817outlook.onmicrosoft.com** as the tenant.
  - Client ID: copy and paste the value of  **Application ID** from the **Configuration Manager** blade in Internet Explorer in which the Azure Portal is opened

  - Client secret key: copy and paste the value from Notepad

  - Click on the Verify button to confirm the Client ID and secret key

  - Location to store application content downloaded from the Microsoft Store for Business:  **\\\\LON-CFG\\StoreApps**

16. On the  **Language** page, click **Next** twice, and then click **Close**.

17. In the  **Configuration Manager** console, in the details pane, verify that the entry for Microsoft Store for Business account is added. Select the entry and then click **Sync from Windows Store for Business**.

18. On the taskbar, click  **File Explorer**. In the details pane, double-click the  **StoreApps** folder, double-click the **wsfb** folder, and then verify that folders for your Microsoft Store for Business apps are added.
>  **Note:** Nine subfolders should be in the **wsfb** folder. You might need to wait a while for subfolders to be created.
19. In the  **Configuration Manager** console, click the **Software Library** workspace.

20. In the navigation pane, expand  **Application Management**, click  **License Information for Store Apps**, and then in the details pane, verify that entries for apps in Microsoft Store for Business are shown.
>  **Note:** You can see licenses that were purchased in Microsoft Store for Business, how they are licensed, the total number of licenses, and the available licenses for each app.

>  **Result**: After finishing this exercise, you should have successfully established syncing between Microsoft Store for Business and Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager.


## Exercise 2: Deploying and managing Microsoft Store for Business apps
  
#### Task 1: Create applications from licensing information and deploying applications
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, in the  **Configuration Manager** console, in the details pane of the **License Information for Store Apps** node, verify that **Translator** has **Online License Type**.

2. Right-click  **Translator**, and then click  **Create Application**.

3. In the  **Create Application Wizard**, on the  **General** page, click **Next** four times, and then click **Close**.

4. In the  **Configuration Manager** console, in the details pane, verify that **Microsoft Remote Desktop** has **Offline License Type**.

5. Right-click  **Microsoft Remote Desktop**, and then click  **Create Application**.

6. In the  **Create Application Wizard**, on the  **General** page, click **Next** four times, and then click **Close**.

7. In the details pane, right-click  **Fresh Paint**, click  **Create Application**, click  **Next** four times, and then click **Close**.

8. In the details pane, right-click  **GoToMeeting**, click  **Create Application**, click  **Next** four times, and then click **Close**.

9. In the  **Configuration Manager** console, in the navigation pane, click **Applications**.

10. In the details pane, right-click  **Translator**, and then click  **Deploy**.

11. In the  **Deploy Software Wizard**, on the  **General** page, in the **Collection** section, click **Browse**, click  **All Users**, click  **OK**, and then click  **Next**.

12. On the  **Content** page, verify that application content is not available on any distribution point and that you can't add a distribution point, and then click **Summary**, click  **Next**, and click  **Close**.
>  **Note:** Online licensed apps are installed from Microsoft Store for Business and their installation files are not available on the distribution points.
13. In the details pane, right-click  **Microsoft Remote Desktop**, and then click  **Deploy**.

14. In the  **Deploy Software Wizard**, on the  **General** page, in the **Collection** section, click **Browse**, click  **All Users**, click  **OK**, and then click  **Next**.

15. On the  **Content** page, click **Add**, click  **Distribution Point**, select the  **LON-CFG.ADATUM.COM** check box, click **OK**, click  **Summary**, click  **Next**, and then click  **Close**.
>  **Note:** Offline licensed apps are installed from downloaded installation files, and you must select the distribution point or points on which files will be available.
16. In the details pane, right-click  **GoToMeeting**, and then click  **Deploy**.

17. In the  **Deploy Software Wizard**, on the  **General** page, click **Browse** for the **Collection**, click  **All Users**, click  **OK**, click  **Summary**, click  **Next**, and then click  **Close**.

18. In the details pane, right-click  **Fresh Paint**, and then click  **Deploy**.

19. In the  **Deploy Software Wizard**, on the  **General** page, in the **Collection** section, click **Browse**, in the  **User Collections** drop-down list, select **Device Collections**, click  **All Windows 10 Workstations**, click  **OK**, and then click  **Next** two times.

20. On the  **Deployment Settings** page, in the **Purpose** drop-down list, select **Required**, click  **Summary**, click  **Next**, and then click  **Close**.



#### Task 2: Install deployed applications on Windows 10 devices
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, sign in as  **Adatum\\Adam** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2. Click Start, type  **winver**, press Enter, verify that  **LON-CL3** is running Windows 10 version 1703 (also known as the Creators Update), and then click **OK**.

3. On the taskbar, click  **Start**, type  **software**, and then click  **Software Center**.

4. In Software Center, on the  **Applications** tab, verify that the Microsoft Remote Desktop, Translator, Fresh Paint, and GoToMeeting apps are available.
>  **Note:** Applications that deployed to users and to devices are listed and available. If Fresh Paint is not displayed in Software center, wait for a few minutes, sign out, and then sign in to **LON-CL3** as Adatum\\Adam.
5. Click  **Translator**, and then click  **Install**. You will receive three notifications: that new software is available, that software is downloading and installing, and that installation failed.
>  **Note:** Installation failed because the user can't authenticate to Microsoft Store for Business with an Azure AD account. This authentication is required when you want to install an online licensed app.
6. In Software Center, click  **Installation status**, and then verify that the Translator app failed to install and that the Fresh Paint app will retry to install.
>  **Note:** The Fresh Paint app was assigned to the All Windows 10 Workstations collection as required. The application tried to install, but because Adam doesn't have an Azure AD account, installation wasn't successful and it will be retried.
7. On the taskbar, click  **Start**, click the  **Settings** icon, click **Accounts**, and then click  **Access work or school**.

8. In the Settings app, in the details pane, click  **+ Connect**, in the  **someone@example.com** text box, type **Adam@ _YourInitialsMMDDYY_outlook.onmicrosoft.com**, and then click  **Next**.
>  **Note:** If you followed the suggestion in Module 1, "Extending the Configuration Manager infrastructure to support Internet-based and mobile devices," you created a Microsoft account in the _YourInitials-MMDDYY_@outlook.com format. For example, if your name is Don Funk and you created a Microsoft account on September 18, 2017, your account should be DF-091817@outlook.com. In this case, you should type  **Adam@DF091817outlook.onmicrosoft.com** as the account.
9. On the  **Enter password** page, in the **Password** text box, type **Pa55w.rd**, click  **Sign in**, click  **Done**, and then close the Settings app.

10. In Software Center, click the  **Applications** tab, click **Translator**, and then click  **Retry**.
>  **Note:** Installation is now successful because Adam now has an Azure AD account (also known as a work or school account) to authenticate to Microsoft Store for Business.
11. In Software Center, click  **Installation status**, and then verify that the Translator app installed. Click  **Fresh Paint**, click  **Retry**, and then wait until the app installs.

12. On  **LON-CL1**, where you are signed in as  **Adatum\\Maj**, on the taskbar, type  **winver**, press Enter, verify that  **LON-CL1** is running Windows 10 version 1607 (also known as the Anniversary Update), and then click **OK**.
>  **Note:** You connected user Maj with his work or school account (Azure AD account) in the previous lab.
13. On the taskbar, click  **Start**, type  **software**, and then click  **Software Center**.

14. In  **Software Center**, on the  **Applications** tab, click **Translator**, and then click  **Install**.

15. Verify that the  **Store** app opens on the **Translator** page. User Maj is signed in to the Store app, and he can manually install the app.
>  **Note:** In Windows 10 prior to Creators Update, you must manually install apps from Microsoft Store for Business even if you deploy them by using Configuration Manager. Full support for deploying apps from Microsoft Store for Business by using Configuration Manager is implemented in Creators Update and newer versions of Windows 10 operating systems.


#### Task 3: Manage licenses for Microsoft Store for Business apps
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, click  **Internet Explorer** on the taskbar, and on the preview page in which Microsoft Store for Business is opened, click **Internet Explorer**, and then verify that you are signed in to Microsoft Store for Business as user Sync.

2. In Microsoft Store for Business, click  **Manage**, in the navigation pane, click  **Products &amp; services**, and then in the details pane, click  **GoToMeeting**.

3. On the  **GoToMeeting** page, in the **Users** section, verify that no user is listed.

4. On  **LON-CL3**, in Software Center, click the  **Applications** tab, click **GoToMeeting**, click  **Install**, and then wait until the application installs.

5. On  **LON-CFG**, in Internet Explorer, refresh the page. After the page refreshes, verify that Adam Hobbs is listed in the  **Users** section.
>  **Note:** You didn't assign the license to Adam Hobbs manually. A license assigned to him automatically when Adam installed the app.
6. On  **LON-CL3**, click  **Start** on the taskbar, type **goto**, and then click  **GoToMeeting**.

7. Verify that the GoToMeeting app opens and that the sign in page displays. Close the GoToMeeting app.

8. On  **LON-CFG**, in Internet Explorer, in the row in which Adam Hobbs is listed, on the right, click the ellipsis ( **...**) in the  **Actions** column, click **Reclaim license**, and then click  **Reclaim licenses**. Verify that Adam Hobbs is no longer listed in the  **Users** section.
>  **Note:** You reclaimed the license for the GoToMeeting app from Adam Hobbs. Because he no longer has the license, he is not allowed to run the app if the app has implemented license checking.


#### Task 4: Prepare for the next module
  
- At the end of the lab, shut down the virtual machines (VMs). However, don't revert the VMs, because you will need the current state for later modules.


>  **Result**: After finishing this exercise, you should have successfully deployed apps from Microsoft Store for Business by using Configuration Manager. You should also have managed licenses for apps in Microsoft Store for Business.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  