# Lab Answer Key:  Module 7: Device platform enrollment by using Configuration Manager MDM
# Lab A: Enrolling Windows devices into a hybrid mobile device management (MDM) environment
  
## Exercise 1: Enabling Windows device management in Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager
  
#### Task 1: Configure domain name system (DNS) CNAME records to simplify user enrollment
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, in  **Server Manager**, click  **Tools**, and then click  **DNS**.

2. When DNS Manager opens, expand  **Forward Lookup Zones**, and then click  **Adatum.com**.

3. Right-click  **Adatum.com**, and then click  **New Alias (CNAME)**. 

4. In the  **New Resource Record** dialog box, in the **Alias name** text box, type **EnterpriseEnrollment**.

5. In the  **Fully qualified domain name (FQDN) for target host** text box, type **EnterpriseEnrollment-s.manage.microsoft.com**.

6. To close the  **New Resource Record** dialog box, click **OK**.

7. Close DNS Manager.



#### Task 2: Configure Windows computers for enrollment
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, on the taskbar, click the  **Configuration Manager Console** icon.

2. In the  **Configuration Manager** console, click the **Administration** workspace.

3. In the navigation pane, expand  **Cloud Services**, and then click  **Microsoft Intune Subscriptions**.

4. In the details pane, click  **Microsoft Intune Subscription**.

5. On the ribbon, click  **Configure Platforms**, and then click  **Windows**.

6. On the  **General** tab, select the **Enable Windows enrollment** check box.

7. Click  **OK** to close the **Microsoft Intune Subscription Properties** box.

>  **Note:** You will not require a code-signing certificate as you will expect users to install the Company Portal app from the Windows Store.


#### Task 3: Configure Windows Phone devices for enrollment
  
1. In the  **Configuration Manager** console, click the **Administration** workspace.

2. In the navigation pane, expand  **Cloud Services**, and then click  **Microsoft Intune Subscriptions**.

3. In the details pane, click  **Microsoft Intune Subscription**.

4. On the ribbon, click  **Configure Platforms**, and then click  **Windows Phone**.

5. On the  **General** tab, select the **Windows Phone 8.1 and Windows 10 Mobile** check box.

6. Select the  **None** option, and then click **OK**.

>  **Note:** You will not require a code-signing certificate as you will expect users to install the Company Portal app from the Windows Store.

>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have enabled Windows device management in Configuration Manager.


## Exercise 2: Configuring automatic MDM enrollment for Windows 10 devices
  
#### Task 1: Configure Azure AD to support automatic MDM enrollment
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, open Microsoft Internet Explorer.

2. In the Internet Explorer Address bar, type  **https:\\portal.azure.com**, and then press Enter. 

3. Sign in with the Microsoft account that you configured in Module 1.

4. In the navigation pane, click  **Azure Active Directory**.

5. On the directory page, under  **MANAGE**, click  **Mobility (MDM and MAM)**.

6. On the  **Mobility (MDM and MAM)** page, click **Microsoft Intune**.

7. On the  **Configure** page, next to **MDM user scope**, click  **Some**.

8. Next to  **Groups**, click  **Select groups**.

9. On the  **Select groups** page, click **Sales**, and then click  **Select**.

10. On the  **Configure** page, click **Save**.

11. Close the  **Configure** page.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have configured automatic MDM enrollment for Windows 10 devices.


## Exercise 3: Enrolling Windows 10 devices into MDM
  
#### Task 1: Enroll a Windows 10 Mobile device
  
1. Switch to  **20703-2A-MOBILE**.

2. On the Start screen, scroll down, and then click  **All Apps**.

3. On the  **All Apps** page, scroll down, and then click **Settings**.

4. On the  **Settings** page, click **Accounts**.

5. On the  **Accounts** page, click **Work access**.

6. On the  **Work access** page, click **Enroll in to device management**. Under  **Email address**, type  **Abbi@&lt; _domain_&gt;.onmicrosoft.com**, and then click  **Connect**.

7. On the  **Microsoft Intune Enrollment** page, enter the following information, and then press Enter:

  - Name:  **Ana@&lt; _domain_&gt;.onmicrosoft.com**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

8. On the  **Work access** page, click **done**.

9. Under  **Enroll in to device management**, notice that  **Adatum Corporation** is listed.

10. Click  **Adatum Corporation**, and then click the  **Sync** button.

11. To go back to the  **Start** screen, press F2.

12. On the Start screen, click the  **Store** tile.

13. Click the search button, type  **Company Portal**, and then press Enter.

14. In the  **Apps** list, click **Company Portal**, and then click  **Get**.

15. On the  **credentials** page, provide the Microsoft Account credentials that you created in Module 1.
>  **Note:** Ana would typically have her own credentials, but for this lab, you will use the credentials that you created in Module 1.
16. On the  **Sign in to this device using your Microsoft account** page, click **Just sign in to this app**.

17. After the app is installed, click  **Launch**.

18. On the  **Let's get you signed in** page, under **Work or school account**, type  **ana@&lt; _domain_&gt;.onmicrosoft.com**, and then press Enter.

19. On the  **Enter password** page, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then press Enter.

20. On the  **Add this account to windows** page, click **Yes**.

21. On the  **You're all set** page, click **Done**.

22. On the  **Terms** page, click **Accept**. 

23. Verify that the Company Portal app displays the  **Adatum Corporation** home page.



#### Task 2: Enroll a Windows 10 computer
  
1. Switch to  **LON-DEVICE1**.

2. On  **LON-DEVICE1**, sign in as  **Allan** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

3. Click  **Start**, and then click  **Settings**.

4. On the  **Windows Settings** page, click **Accounts**.

5. Click  **Access work or school**.

6. Under  **Connect to work or school**, click  **Connect**.

7. On the  **Set up a work or school account** page, in the text box, type **Allan@&lt; _domain_&gt;.onmicrosoft.com**, and then press Enter. 

8. On the  **Enter password** page, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then press Enter.

9. On the  **Adatum Corporation Terms** page, click **Accept**.

10. On the  **Help us protect your account** page, click **Set it up now**.

11. On the  **Verify your identity** page, select **Text message**, and then provide a mobile phone number that can receive text messages and then click  **Next**. You will receive a verification code on your device to proceed with registration.

12. After you enter the verification code, click  **Next**.

13. On the  **Create a PIN** page, click **Create PIN**.

14. In the  **Set up a PIN** dialog box, type **2434** in both the **New PIN** and **Confirm PIN** boxes, and then click **OK**.

15. On the  **Almost done** page, click **Next**.

16. On the Windows Security dialog box, type  **Pa55w.rd** and then click **OK**.

17. Under the  **Connect** button, click the **Work or school account** icon that contains Allan's email address, and then click **Info**. Notice the Management Server Address and Last Attempted Sync values.

18. To perform a manual sync, click  **Sync**.

19. Close the  **Settings** dialog box.

20. On the taskbar, click the  **Store** icon.

21. In the Store window, in the  **Search** box, type **Company Portal**, and then press Enter.

22. In the  **Apps** list, click **Company Portal**, and then click  **Get**. The Company Portal installs.

23. After the installation, click  **Launch**. The Company Portal opens. 

24. Close the  **Company Portal** and **Store** windows.



#### Task 3: Prepare for the next lab
  
- At the end of the lab, do not revert the virtual machines as you will need their current state for the next lab.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have enrolled Windows 10 devices into MDM.



# Lab B: Enrolling Android devices into a hybrid MDM environment
  
## Exercise 1: Enabling Android enrollment for MDM using Configuration Manager and Microsoft Intune
  
#### Task 1: Create a Google admin account to use for Intune MDM services
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, open Internet Explorer.

2. In the Internet Explorer Address bar, type  **https://accounts.google.com/SignUp**, and then press Enter. 

3. On the  **Create your Google Account** page, fill in the following information:

  - Name:  **Adatum Admin**

  - Choose your username:  **Adatum&lt; _yourinitials_&gt;&lt; _date_&gt;@gmail.com**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

>  **Note:** Make sure that you write down the user name that you chose. For example, you can choose a user name in the Adatum _YourInitialsDate_@gmail.com format, such as AdatumCK070717@gmail.com. Use  **Pa55w.rd** as the password.
4. Under  **Birthday**, enter your birthday by using the  **Month**,  **Day**, and  **Year** fields.

5. Under  **Gender**, select your gender.

6. In the  **Your current email address** text box, type an email address that is assigned to you.

7. Clear the  **Set Google as my default homepage** check box.

8. Click  **Next step**.

9. On the  **Privacy and Terms** page, scroll down, and then click **I AGREE**.

10. On the  **Welcome** page, provide a phone number that accepts text messages and then click **Continue**.

11. On the  **Verify your account** page, provide the verification code and then click **Continue**.

12. Close Internet Explorer.



#### Task 2: Enable Android device enrollment
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, on the taskbar, click the  **Configuration Manager Console** icon.

2. In the  **Configuration Manager** console, click the **Administration** workspace.

3. In the navigation pane, expand  **Cloud Services**, and then click  **Microsoft Intune Subscriptions**.

4. In the details pane, click  **Microsoft Intune Subscription**.

5. On the ribbon, click  **Configure Platforms**, and then click  **Android**.

6. On the  **General** tab, click **Enable Android enrollment**. Click  **OK**.

7. On the ribbon, click  **Configure Platforms**, and then click  **Android for Work**.

8. On the  **General** tab, click **Configure Android for Work in the Intune console**.

9. When the  **Microsoft Intune sign in** page opens, sign in as **Adam@&lt; _domain_&gt;.onmicrosoft.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

10. If necessary, browse to the  **ADMIN** workspace, and then under **Mobile Device Management**, select  **Android for Work**.

11. In the  **Android for Work Mobile Device Management Setup** page, under **Add Android for Work Binding**, click  **Configure**. 

12. When the  **Google Play sign in** page opens, if necessary, provide your Google account credentials, and then click **GET STARTED**.

13. On the  **Organization details** page, type **Adatum**.

14. Select the  **I have read and agree to the managed Google Play agreement** check box, and then click **CONFIRM**.

15. On the  **Set up complete** page, click **COMPLETE REGISTRATION**.

16. When the Intune portal opens, review the Android for Work binding details, and then select the  **Manage all devices as Android** option. (You will choose this option due to the Android emulator limitations, in a production environment, you would choose to manage as Android for Work devices.)

17. Click  **Save**.

18. Close Internet Explorer.

19. In the  **Configuration Manager** console, click **OK** to close the **Microsoft Intune Subscription Properties** dialog box.

20. In the  **Administration** workspace, expand **Cloud Services**, and then click  **Android for Work**.

21. On the ribbon, click  **Sync**. It will take several minutes for the sync to complete. After the sync is complete, you will see an Android for Work entry in the details pane. 

>  **Note:** Note that the sync status may show a Sync Status as Failed, which is acceptable for this task. To address the failed status, you need to approve an app in the Google Play for Work website. You will do this in a later task.

>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have enabled Android enrollment for MDM.


## Exercise 2: Enrolling an Android device into MDM
  
#### Task 1: Enroll an Android device into MDM
  
1. Switch to  **20703-2A-Android**.

2. On the Start screen, click the  **apps** icon.

3. On the  **Apps** screen, click **Play Store**.

4. On the  **Add a Google Account** page, click **Existing**.

5. Sign in by using the Google account you created in Exercise 1.
>  **Note:** A user would usually have their own credentials, but for this lab, you will use the credentials that you created in Exercise 1.
6. Click  **OK** to agree to the terms of service, and then complete the sign-in procedures.

7. On the  **Google services** page, clear all the check boxes, and then press Enter.

8. On the  **Set up payment info** page, click **NO THANKS**.

9. When the Google Play store opens, in the  **Google Play** search box, type **Company Portal**, and then press Enter.

10. Under  **Apps**, click  **Intune Company Portal**.

11. On the  **Intune Company Portal** page, click **Install**, and then click  **Accept**.

12. At the bottom of the screen, click  **Home page**. Company Portal displays on the home page.

13. On the home page, click  **Company Portal**.

14. On the  **Company Portal sign in** page, click **Sign in**.

15. On the  **Microsoft Intune** page, enter the following information, and then click **Sign in**:

  - Name:  **Allan@&lt; _domain_&gt;.onmicrosoft.com**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

16. In the  **Adatum Corporation Company Access Setup** page, click **BEGIN**.

17. On the  **Why enroll your device** page, click **CONTINUE**.

18. On the  **We care about your privacy** page, click **CONTINUE**.

19. On the  **What comes next** page, click **ENROLL**.

20. On the  **Activate device administrator** page, click **Activate**. It will take several minutes for the device to enroll.

21. On the  **Company Access Setup** page, click **CONTINUE**, and then click  **DONE**.



#### Task 2: Prepare for the next lab
  
- At the end of the lab, do not revert the virtual machines as you will need their current state for the next lab.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have enrolled an Android device into MDM.



# Lab C: Managing mobile devices in hybrid MDM
  
## Exercise 1: Configuring compliance settings for devices enrolled into MDM
  
#### Task 1: Configure compliance settings for Windows 10 computers and Windows 10 Mobile devices enrolled into MDM
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, on the taskbar, click the  **Configuration Manager Console** icon.

2. In the  **Configuration Manager console**, click the  **Assets and Compliance** workspace.

3. In the navigation pane, expand  **Compliance Settings**, and then click  **Configuration Items**.

4. On the ribbon, click  **Create Configuration Item**. 

5. In the  **Create Configuration Item Wizard**, on the  **General** page, configure the following settings, and then click **Next**:

  - Name:  **Windows 10 Settings**

  - Settings for devices managed without the Configuration Manager client:  **Windows 8.1 and Windows 10**

6. On the  **Supported Platforms** page, clear the **Windows 8** and **Windows 8.1** check boxes.

7. On the  **Supported Platforms** page, expand **Windows 10**, clear all the check boxes except  **All Windows 10 (64-bit)** and **All Windows 10 Mobile and higher**, and then click  **Next**.

8. On the  **Device Settings** page, select the following check boxes, and then click **Next**:

  -  **Password**

  -  **Windows Defender**

9. On the  **Password** page, configure the following settings, and then click **Next**:

  - Require password settings on device:  **Required**

  - Minimum password length:  **6**

  - Password expiration in days:  **30**

  - Number of passwords remembered:  **5**

  - Password complexity:  **PIN**

10. On the  **Windows Defender** page, configure the following settings, and then click **Next**:

  - Allow real-time monitoring:  **Yes**

  - Scan all downloads:  **Yes**

  - Scan removable drives:  **Yes**

  - Signature update interval:  **4 hours**

11. On the  **Platform Applicability** page, click **Next**.

12. On the  **Summary** page, click **Next**.

13. On the  **Completion** page, click **Close**.



#### Task 2: Configure compliance settings for Android devices enrolled into MDM
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, on the taskbar, click the  **Configuration Manager Console** icon.

2. In the  **Configuration Manager console**, click the  **Assets and Compliance** workspace.

3. In the navigation pane, expand  **Compliance Settings**, and then click  **Configuration Items**.

4. On the ribbon, click  **Create Configuration Item**.

5. In the  **Create Configuration Item Wizard**, on the  **General** page, configure the following items, and then click **Next**:

  - Name:  **Android Settings**

  - Settings for devices managed without the Configuration Manager client:  **Android and Samsung KNOX**

6. On the  **Supported Platforms** page, expand **Android**, clear the  **Android KNOX Standard 4.0 and higher** check box, and then click **Next**.

7. On the  **Device Settings** page, select the **Password** and **Security** check boxes, and then click **Next**.

8. On the  **Password** page, configure the following settings, and then click **Next**:

  - Require password settings on device:  **Required**

  - Minimum password length:  **6**

  - Password expiration in days:  **30**

  - Number of passwords remembered:  **5**

  - Password quality:  **At least alphanumeric**

9. On the  **Security** page, configure **Camera** as **Prohibited**, and then click  **Next**.

10. On the  **Platform Applicability** page, click **Next**.

11. On the  **Summary** page, click **Next**.

12. On the  **Completion** page, click **Close**.



#### Task 3: Create and deploy a configuration baseline to MDM devices
  
1. In the  **Configuration Manager console**, click the  **Assets and Compliance** workspace.

2. In the navigation pane, expand  **Compliance Settings**, and then click  **Configuration Baselines**.

3. On the ribbon, click  **Create Configuration Baseline**. 

4. In the  **Create Configuration Baseline** dialog box, in the **Name** text box, type **Mobile Device Baseline**.

5. Under  **Configuration Data**, click  **Add**, and then click  **Configuration Items**. 

6. In the  **Add Configuration Items** dialog box, select the following available configuration items, and then click **Add**:

  -  **Android Settings**

  -  **Windows 10 Settings**

7. To close the  **Add Configuration Items** dialog box, click **OK**.

8. To close the  **Create Configuration Baseline** dialog box, click **OK**.

9. In the details pane, select  **Mobile Device Baseline**, and then on the ribbon, click  **Deploy**. 

10. In the  **Deploy Configuration Baselines** dialog box, configure the following options, and then click **OK**:

  - Selected configuration baselines:  **Mobile Device Baseline**

  - Remediate noncompliant rules when supported:  **Enabled**

  - Device Collections:  **All Mobile Devices**

  - Simple Schedule:  **Run every 1 day**



#### Task 4: Synchronize policy settings with MDM enrolled devices
  
1. In the  **Configuration Manager console**, click the  **Assets and Compliance** workspace.

2. In the navigation pane, click  **Devices**.

3. In the details pane, click  **Allan_Android**.

4. On the ribbon, click  **Remote Device Actions**, and then click  **Send Sync Request**.

5. Repeat steps 3 and 4 for  **Ana_WindowsPhone** and **LON-DEVICE1**.

6. In the details pane, right-click the column headings, and then select  **Sync Request State**. 

7. Verify that the Sync Request status is  **Pending**. 

8. Refresh the results pane until the state shows  **Succeeded** for all three mobile devices. It may take a while for the status to update. Continue with the lab and check back later to verify that all devices have synchronized successfully. If the pending status remains after an excessive period of time, restart the MOBILE and LON-DEVICE1 VMs and then click refresh on Configuration Manager Console.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have configured compliance settings for devices enrolled into MDM.


## Exercise 2: Deploying applications to devices enrolled into MDM
  
#### Task 1: Deploy Windows Store apps to Windows 10 computers enrolled into MDM
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, on the taskbar, click the  **Configuration Manager Console** icon.

2. In the  **Configuration Manager console**, click the  **Software Library** workspace.

3. In the navigation pane, expand  **Application Management**, and then click  **Applications**.

4. Right-click  **Applications**, and then click  **Create Application**. 

5. In the  **Create Application Wizard**, on the  **General** page, configure the following settings, and then click **Next**:

  - Automatically detect information about this application from installation files:  **Selected**

  - Type:  **Windows app package (in the Windows Store)**

  - Location: Click  **Browse**, in the Windows Store, search for and select  **The Weather Channel**, and then click  **OK**.

6. On the  **Import Information** page, click **Next**. 

7. On the  **General Information** page, configure the following, and then click **Next**:

  - Name:  **The Weather Channel**

8. On the  **Summary** page, click **Next**.

9. On the  **Completion** page, click **Close**.

10. In the results pane, click  **The Weather Channel**, and then on the ribbon, click  **Deploy**. 

11. In the  **Deploy Software Wizard**, on the  **General** page, next to **Collection**, click  **Browse**. 

12. On the  **Select Collection** page, click **Adatum MDM Users**, and then click  **OK**.

13. On the  **General** page, click **Next**.

14. On the  **Content** page, click **Next**.

15. On the  **Deployment Settings** page, configure the following settings, and then click **Next**.

  - Action:  **Install**

  - Purpose:  **Available**

16. On the  **Scheduling** page, click **Next**.

17. On the  **User Experience** page, click **Next**.

18. On the  **Alerts** page, click **Next**.

19. On the  **Summary** page, click **Next**.

20. On the  **Completion** page, click **Close**.

21. Repeat steps 4-20 to deploy another app as follows:

  - Name:  **Microsoft Mahjong**

  - Action:  **Install**

  - Purpose:  **Required**



#### Task 2: Create an Application Management Policy for Android Devices
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, on the taskbar, click the  **Configuration Manager Console** icon.

2. In the  **Configuration Manager console**, click the  **Software Library** workspace.

3. In the navigation pane, expand  **Application Management**, and then click  **Application Management Policies**.

4. Right-click  **Application Management Policies**, and then click  **Create Application Management Policy**.

5. In the  **Create Application Management Policy Wizard**, on the  **General** page, configure the following settings, and then click **Next**:

  - Name:  **Word Mobile Policy for Android**

6. On the  **Policy Type** page, configure the following settings, and then click **Next**:

  - Platform:  **Android**

  - Policy Type:  **General**

7. On the  **Android Policy** page, configure the following settings, and then click **Next**.

  - Require simple PIN for access:  **No**

8. On the  **Summary** page, click **Next**.

9. On the  **Completion** page, click **Close**.



#### Task 3: Deploy Google Play apps to Android devices enrolled into MDM
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, on the taskbar, click the  **Configuration Manager Console** icon.

2. In the  **Configuration Manager console**, click the  **Software Library** workspace.

3. In the navigation pane, expand  **Application Management**, and then click  **Applications**.

4. Right-click  **Applications**, and then click  **Create Application**.

5. In the  **Create Application Wizard**, on the  **General** page, configure the following settings, and then click **Next**:

  - Automatically detect information about this application from installation files:  **Selected**

  - Type:  **App Package for Android on Google Play**

  - Location: Click  **Browse** and then in Google Play, search for and select **Microsoft Word**, and then click  **OK**.

6. On the  **Import Information** page, click **Next**. 

7. On the  **General Information** page, configure the following settings, and then click **Next**:

  - Name:  **Microsoft Word**

  - Publisher:  **Microsoft**

8. On the  **Summary** page, click **Next**.

9. On the  **Completion** page, click **Close**.

10. In the results pane, click  **Microsoft Word**, and then in the ribbon, click  **Deploy**.

11. In the  **Deploy Software Wizard**, on the  **General** page, next to **Collection**, click  **Browse**. 

12. On the  **Select Collection** page, click **Adatum MDM Users**, and then click  **OK**.

13. On the  **General** page, click **Next**.

14. On the  **Content** page, click **Next**.

15. On the  **Deployment Settings** page, configure the following settings, and then click **Next**.

  - Action:  **Install**

  - Purpose:  **Available**

16. On the  **Scheduling** page, click **Next**.

17. On the  **User Experience** page, click **Next**.

18. On the  **Alerts** page, click **Next**.

19. On the  **Application Management** page, verify that **Word Mobile Policy for Android** is selected and then click **Next**.

20. On the  **Summary** page, click **Next**.

21. On the  **Completion** page, click **Close**.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have deployed applications to devices enrolled into MDM.


## Exercise 3: Performing on-demand management on devices enrolled into MDM
  
#### Task 1: Retire or wipe an Android device enrolled into MDM
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, on the taskbar, click the  **Configuration Manager Console** icon.

2. In the  **Configuration Manager console**, click the  **Assets and Compliance** workspace.

3. In the navigation pane, click  **Devices**.

4. In the details pane, select  **Allan_Android**.

5. Right-click  **Allan_Android**, point to  **Remote Device Actions**, and then click  **Retire/Wipe**. 

6. In the  **Retire from Configuration Manager** dialog box, select **Wipe company content and retire the mobile device from Configuration Manager**, and then click  **OK**.

7. At the  **Configuration Manager** prompt, click **Yes**.

8. Right-click  **Allan_Android**, point to  **Remote Device Actions**, and then click  **Send Sync Request**.



#### Task 2: Lock a Windows device enrolled into MDM
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, on the taskbar, click the  **Configuration Manager Console** icon.

2. In the  **Configuration Manager console**, click the  **Assets and Compliance** workspace.

3. In the navigation pane, click  **Devices**.

4. In the details pane, select  **Ana_WindowsPhone**.

5. Right-click  **Ana_WindowsPhone**, point to  **Remote Device Actions**, click  **Remote Lock** and then click **Yes**.



#### Task 3: Prepare for the next module
  
- At the end of the lab, shut down the virtual machines. However, do not revert the virtual machines as you will need the current state for later modules.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have performed on-demand management on devices enrolled into MDM.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  