# Lab Answer Key:  Module 4: Managing Office 365 apps by using Configuration Manager
# Lab A: Preparing Office 365 for application deployment
  
## Exercise 1: Signing up for an Office 365 trial subscription
  
#### Task 1: Configure Adam Hobbs as a global administrator in Azure
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, open Internet Explorer, and then browse to  **https://portal.azure.com**. 

2. Sign in with your Microsoft account that you configured in Module 1.

3. In the navigation pane, click  **Azure Active Directory**.

4. On the directory page, under  **MANAGE**, click  **Users and groups**.

5. On the  **Users and groups** page, click **All users**.

6. In the user list, click  **Adam Hobbs**.

7. On the  **Adam Hobbs** page, click **Directory role**.

8. On the  **Directory role** page, select **Global administrator**, and then click  **Save**.

9. In the navigation pane, click  **Azure Active Directory**.

10. In the list, click  **Licenses**.

11. Click  **All Products**, and then click  **Try/Buy**.

12. In the  **Azure AD Premium** box, click **Free trial**.

13. Click  **Activate** and then close Internet Explorer.



#### Task 2: Sign up for a trial Office 365 subscription
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, open Internet Explorer, and then browse to  **https://portal.office.com**. 

2. On the  **Office 365** page, sign in as **Adam@ _&lt;_** _directory_ ** _&gt;_.onmicrosoft.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**. Note that  _directory_ refers to the name you specified in Module 1.

3. Click the  **Admin** button.

4. Expand  **Billing**, and then click  **Purchase services**.

5. On the  **Purchase services** page, scroll down to **Office 365 Enterprise E3**, and then click the three dots (...) at the bottom of the information box. 

6. Click  **Start free trial**.

7. On the  **confirm your order** page, click **Try now**.

8. On the  **order receipt** page, click **Continue**.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have signed up for an Office 365 trial subscription.


## Exercise 2: Assigning Office 365 ProPlus licenses to users
  
#### Task 1: Assign Office 365 licenses to users
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, if necessary, open Internet Explorer, and then browse to  **https://portal.office.com**. 

2. On the  **Office 365** page, sign in as **Adam@ _&lt;_** _directory_ ** _&gt;_.onmicrosoft.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

3. Click the  **Admin** button.

4. In the navigation pane, expand  **Users**, and then click  **Active Users**.

5. In the user list, click  **Adam Hobbs**. 

6. On the  **Adam Hobbs** page, next to **Product licenses**, click  **Edit**.

7. In the  **Location** box, select **United States**.

8. Next to  **Office 365 Enterprise E3**, click the slide button to the  **On** position. Notice that Microsoft Office 365 contains a number of applications in addition to Microsoft Office 365 ProPlus.

9. Next to  **Azure Active Directory Premium P2**, click the slide button to the  **On** position. This enables all Azure AD features.

10. At the bottom of the page, click  **Save**.

11. On the  **Product licenses** page, click **Close**.

12. Close the  **Adam Hobbs** page.

13. Repeat steps 4-11 for  **Abbi Skinner**,  **Allan Yoo**, and  **Ana Cantrell**.

14. Close Internet Explorer.



#### Task 2: Verify that an Office 365 license has been assigned
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, on the taskbar, right-click  **Internet Explorer**, and then click  **Start InPrivate Browsing**.

2. Browse to  **https://portal.office.com**. 

3. On the  **Office 365** page, sign in as **abbi@ _&lt;directory&gt;_.onmicrosoft.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

4. Take note of all the applications available from the Office 365 portal.

5. At the top of the portal, under  **Install Office 2016**, click  **Other installs**. The  **Software** portal opens.

6. On the  **Office** page, take note of the **Office 365 ProPlus** apps that can be installed on your computer.

7. Click the  **Skype for Business** page, and take note of the versions of Skype available to be installed.

8. Close Internet Explorer.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have assigned Office 365 licenses to corporate users.


## Exercise 3: Modifying Office 365 ProPlus options for manual downloads
  
#### Task 1: Modify Office software download settings
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, if necessary, open Internet Explorer, and then browse to  **https://portal.office.com**. 

2. On the  **Office 365** page, sign in as **Adam@ _&lt;_** _directory_ ** _&gt;_.onmicrosoft.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

3. Click the  **Admin** button.

4. In the navigation pane, expand  **Settings**, and then click  **Services &amp; add-ins**.

5. In the  **Services &amp; add-ins** list, click **Office software download settings**. 

6. On the  **Office software download settings** page, configure the following settings:

  - Turn off  **Skype for Business (Standalone)**

  - Turn off  **Software for Mac**

7. Verify that  **Every 6 months (Semi-Annual channel)** is selected.

8. At the bottom of the page, click  **Save**.

9. On the  **Office software download settings** page, click **Close**.

10. Close Internet Explorer.



#### Task 2: Prepare for the next lab
  
- Keep the virtual machines running for the next lab.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have modified Office 365 ProPlus deployment options for manual installations.



# Lab B: Deploying and managing Office 365 client applications by using Configuration Manager
  
## Exercise 1: Configuring infrastructure requirements to support Office 365 client management
  
#### Task 1: Validate hardware inventory settings
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, from the taskbar, start the  **Configuration Manager** console.

2. In the  **Configuration Manager** console, click the **Administration** workspace.

3. In the navigation pane, click the  **Client Settings** node.

4. Right-click  **Default Client Settings**, and then click  **Properties**.

5. In the  **Default Settings** dialog box, click **Hardware Inventory**.

6. Verify that  **Enable hardware inventory on clients** is set to **Yes**.

7. Under  **Device Settings** next to **Hardware inventory classes**, click  **Set Classes**.

8. In the  **Hardware Inventory Classes** dialog box, scroll down and verify that **Office 365 ProPlus Configurations (Office365ProPlusConfigurations)** is selected.

9. Click  **OK** to close the **Hardware Inventory Classes** dialog box.



#### Task 2: Enable management of the Office 365 client agent
  
1. In the  **Configuration Manager** console, in the **Default Settings** dialog box, click **Software Updates**.

2. Under  **Device Settings**, scroll down and take note of the  **Enable management of the Office 365 Client Agent** option.

3. Next to  **Enable management of the Office 365 Client Agent**, select  **Yes**.

4. Click  **OK** to close the **Default Settings** dialog box.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have validated infrastructure requirements to support Office 365 client management.


## Exercise 2: Deploying the Office 365 client application
  
#### Task 1: Create target collections and source folders
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, if necessary, on the taskbar, click  **Configuration Manager Console**.

2. On the  **Assets and Compliance** workspace, click **Device Collections**.

3. Right-click  **Device Collections**, and then click  **Create Device Collection**. The  **Create Device Collection Wizard** opens.

4. On the  **General** page, configure the following information, and then click **Next**:

  - Name:  **Office 365 Current Channel**

  - Limiting collection:  **All Windows 10 Workstations**

5. On the  **Membership Rules** page, clear the **Schedule a full update on this collection** check box, and then click **Next**.

6. At the  **Configuration Manager** prompt, click **OK**. This collection will not have any membership initially.

7. On the  **Summary** page, click **Next**.

8. On the  **Completion** page, click **Close**.

9. Right-click the  **Office 365 Current Channel** collection, and then click **Copy**.

10. Right-click the  **Office 365 Current Channel(1)** collection, and then click **Properties**.

11. On the  **General** tab, in the **Name** field, replace the current name with **Office 365 Deferred Channel**.

12. On the  **Membership Rules** page, click the **Add Rule** button, and then click **Include Collections**. 

13. In the  **Select Collections** box, select **All Windows 10 Workstations**, and then click  **OK**.

14. On the  **Membership Rules** page, click the **Add Rule** button, and then click **Exclude Collections**. 

15. In the  **Select Collections** box, select **Office 365 Current Channel**, and then click  **OK**.

16. On the  **Membership Rules** page, select the **Schedule a full update on this collection** check box.

17. Click  **OK** to close the properties box.

18. On the taskbar, click  **File Explorer**.

19. In File Explorer, browse to  **E:\\Source**.

20. In  **E:\\Source**, create a new folder named  **O365Current**.

21. In  **E:\\Source**, create a new folder named  **O365Deferred**.

22. Close File Explorer.



#### Task 2: Configure the Office 365 installers
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, if necessary, on the taskbar, click  **Configuration Manager Console**. 

2. Click the  **Software Library** workspace, and then click **Office 365 Client Management**. The  **Office 365 Client Management** dashboard displays.

3. In the  **Office 365 Client Management** dashboard, click **Office 365 Installer**. The  **Office 365 Client Installation Wizard** starts.

4. On the  **Application Settings** page, configure the following options, and then click **Next**:

  - Name:  **Office 365 Current Channel**

  - Content Location:  **\\\\LON-CFG\\e$\\Source\\O365Current**

5. On the  **Import Client Settings** page, select **Manually specify the Office 365 client settings**, and then click  **Next**.

6. On the  **Client Products** page, configure the following options, and then click **Next**:

  - Suite:  **Office 365 ProPlus**

  - Office 365 Client Applications: Clear the  **Publisher** check mark

7. On the  **Client Settings** page, configure the following options, and then click **Next**:

  - Architecture:  **32-bit**

  - Channel:  **Current**

  - Enable these properties:
 **Accept EULA, Autoactivate, Pin Icons to Taskbar**

8. On the  **Deployment** page, under **Do you want to deploy the application now**, select  **No**, and then click  **Next**.

9. On the  **Summary** page, click **Next**. It will take several minutes to compete the download and show the  **Completion** page.

10. On the  **Completion** page, click **Close**.

11. Repeat steps 1-10 to create another installation. Configure the following exceptions:

  - Name:  **Office 365 Deferred Channel**

  - Content Location:  **\\\\LON-CFG\\e$\\Source\\O365Deferred**

  - Channel:  **Deferred**





#### Task 3: Deploy the Office 365 application to client devices
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, if necessary, on the taskbar, click  **Configuration Manager Console**. 

2. Click the  **Software Library** workspace, expand **Application Management**, and then click  **Applications**. Notice that two Office 365 applications display.

3. Right-click  **Office 365 Current Channel**, and then click  **Deploy**. The  **Deploy Software Wizard** starts.

4. On the  **General** page, configure the following option, and then click **Next**:

  - Collection:  **Office 365 Current Channel**

>  **Note:** Since there are no members in the Office 365 Current Channel collection, you will get a message warning you that the collection contains no members. Click **OK** to dismiss this message.
5. On the  **Content** page, click **Add**, and then click  **Distribution point**. 

6. In the  **Add Distribution Points** dialog box, select **LON-CFG.Adatum.com**, click  **OK**, and then click  **Next**.

7. On the  **Deployment Settings** page configure the following options, and then click **Next**:

  - Action:  **Install**

  - Purpose:  **Required**

8. On the  **Scheduling** page, configure the following option, and then click **Next**:

  - Installation deadline:  **As soon as possible after the available time**

9. On the  **User Experience** page, click **Next**.

10. On the  **Alerts** page, click **Next**.

11. On the  **Summary** page, click **Next**.

12. On the  **Completion** page, click **Close**.

13. Repeat steps 1-12 to create another installation. Configure the following exceptions:

  - Application:  **Office 365 Deferred Channel**

  - Collection:  **Office 365 Deferred Channel**



#### Task 4: Update the client policy on LON-CL1 and install the Office 365 application
  
1. Switch to the  **LON-CL1** computer.

2. Sign in as  **Adatum\\Maj** with the password of **Pa55w.rd**. You may be prompted to install Windows Store apps. Close all windows.

3. Right-click the  **Start** button, click **Control Panel**, click  **System and Security**, and then click  **Configuration Manager**.

4. In the  **Configuration Manager Properties** dialog box, on the **Actions** tab, click **Machine Policy Retrieval &amp; Evaluation Cycle**, click  **Run Now**, and then click  **OK**.

5. On the  **Actions** tab, click **Application Deployment Evaluation Cycle**, click  **Run Now**, and then click  **OK**.

6. In the  **Configuration Manager Properties** dialog box, click **OK**.

7. Close the  **System and Security** window.

8. Wait for one minute for the policy to process. A notification that says  **Software changes are required** will briefly appear.

9. Click the  **Start** button, scroll down, expand **MicrosoftSystem Center**, and then select  **Software Center**. 

10. Click  **Installation Status**. Review the progress of the  **Office 365 Deferred Channel** application installation.

11. When the installation is finished, sign out of LON-CL1.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have created two collections and two source folders and then configured and deployed the Office 365 client to the two collections.


## Exercise 3: Configuring software updates to support Office 365
  
#### Task 1: Modify software update point classifications and products
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, from the taskbar, start the  **Configuration Manager** console.

2. In the  **Configuration Manager** console, click the **Administration** workspace.

3. In the navigation pane, expand the  **Site Configuration** node, and then click **Sites**.

4. Right-click  **S01 - Adatum Site**, point to  **Configure Site Components**, and then click  **Software Update Point**.

5. In the  **Software Update Point Component Properties** box, click the **Sync Settings** tab and then select **Synchronize from Microsoft Update**.

6. In the  **Software Update Point Component Properties** box, click the **Classifications** tab.

7. Under  **Software update classifications**, select the  **Updates** check box.

8. In the  **Software Update Point Component Properties** box, click the **Products** tab.

9. Under  **Products**, in the  **Office** section, select **Office 365 Client**.

10. Click  **OK** to close the **Software Update Point Component Properties** dialog box.



#### Task 2: Synchronize the software update point
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, in the  **Configuration Manager** console, click the **Software Library** workspace.

2. Expand  **Office 365 Client Management**, and then click  **Office 365 Updates**.

3. On the ribbon, click  **Synchronize Software Updates**.

4. In the  **Configuration Manager** prompt, click **Yes**.

5. On the taskbar, click  **File Explorer**.

6. Browse to  **C:\\Program Files\\Microsoft Configuration Manager\\Logs**, and then open  **wsyncmgr.log**. The log file opens in the Configuration Manager trace log tool.

7. Monitor the synchronization process. This takes at least 15 minutes to complete.

8. When the synchronization is complete, close  **Configuration Manager Trace Log Tool**.

9. In the  **Configuration Manager** console, refresh the **Office 365 Updates** node. There should be several Office 365 client update files that display.
>  **Note:** If no updates are displayed, repeat steps 2-9.


#### Task 3: Create an automatic deployment rule to deploy the Office 365 client applications
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, if necessary, on the taskbar, click  **Configuration Manager console**.

2. In the  **Configuration Manager** console, click the **Software Library** workspace, and then click **Office 365 Client Management**.

3. On the dashboard, click  **Create an ADR**. 

4. In the  **Create Automatic Deployment Rule Wizard**, on the  **General** page, configure the following settings, and then click **Next**:

  - Name:  **Office 365 Updates**

  - Template:  **Office 365 Client Updates**

  - Collection:  **Office 365 Deferred Channel**

  - Create a new Software Update Group: selected

  - Enable the deployment after this rule is run: selected

5. On the  **Deployment Settings** page, click **Next**.

6. On the  **Software Updates** page, verify that the **Property filters** are set as follows:

  - Date Released or Revised:  **Last 1 day**

  - Product:  **Office 365 Client**

7. Click  **Preview** to determine which updates apply from the most recent synchronization, and then click **Close**. 

8. On the  **Software Updates** page, click **Next**.

9. On the  **Evaluation Schedule** page, verify that the **Run the rule on a schedule** option is selected, and then click **Next**.

10. On the  **Deployment Schedule** page, verify that the template settings are configured as follows:

  - Schedule evaluation:  **Client local time**

  - Software available time:  **4 Hours**

11. On the  **Deployment Schedule** page, click **Next**.

12. On the  **User Experience** page, verify the following template setting appears:

  - User notifications:  **Display in Software Center and show all notifications**

13. On the  **User Experience** page, click **Next**.

14. On the  **Alerts** page, verify that **Generate an alert when the following conditions are met** is selected, and then click **Next**.

15. On the  **Download Settings** page, click **Next**.

16. On the  **Deployment Package** page, click **Create a new deployment package**, and use the following settings:

  - Name:  **O365updates**

  - Package source:  **\\\\LON-CFG\\E$\\source\\O365updates**

17. On the  **Deployment Package** page, click **Next**.

18. On the  **Distribution Points** page, click **Add**, and then click  **Distribution Point**.

19. In the  **Add Distribution Points** dialog box, select **LON-CFG.ADATUM.COM**, and then click  **OK**.

20. On the  **Distribution Points** page, click **Next**.

21. On the  **Download Location** page, click **Download software updates from the Internet**, and then click  **Next**.

22. On the  **Language Selection** page, ensure that only **English** is selected, and then click **Next**.

23. On the  **Summary** page, verify that the settings are correct, and then click **Next**.

24. On the  **Completion** page, click **Close**.

25. Refresh the  **Office 365 Client Management** dashboard, and then take note of the **Office 365 Deployments Summary** tile. It should say **No Office 365 Deployments**.



#### Task 4: Create a second deployment for the Office 365 updates automatic deployment rule
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, if necessary, on the taskbar, click  **Configuration Manager console**.

2. In the  **Configuration Manager** console, click the **Software Library** workspace, and then expand **Software Updates**.

3. Click  **Automatic Deployment Rules**. In the results pane, you can see the  **Office 365 Updates** automatic deployment rule that you created previously.

4. Right-click  **Office 365 Updates**, and then click  **Add Deployment**. The  **Add Deployment** wizard opens.

5. On the  **Collection** page, configure the following settings, and then click **Next**:

  - Collection:  **Office 365 Current Channel**

  - Enable the deployment after this rule is run: selected

6. On the  **Deployment Settings** page, click **Next**.

7. On the  **Deployment Schedule** page, verify that the template settings are configured as follows:

  - Schedule evaluation:  **Client local time**

  - Software available time:  **As soon as possible**

8. On the  **Deployment Schedule** page, click **Next**.

9. On the  **User Experience** page, configure the following template setting:

  - User notifications:  **Display in Software Center and show all notifications**

10. On the  **User Experience** page, click **Next**.

11. On the  **Alerts** page, select **Generate an alert when the following conditions are met**, and then click  **Next**.

12. On the  **Download Settings** page, click **Next**.

13. On the  **Summary** page, verify that the settings are correct, and then click **Next**.

14. On the  **Completion** page, click **Close**.



#### Task 5: Prepare for the next module
  
- At the end of the lab, shut down the virtual machines. However, do not revert the virtual machines because you will need the current state for later modules.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have configured software updates to support Office 365.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
