# Lab Answer Key:  Module 2: Managing clients on the Internet
# Lab A: Configuring IBCM
  
## Exercise 1: Configuring the Configuration Manager site systems to support IBCM
  
#### Task 1: Verify that the PKI certificates are in place
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, click  **Start**, type  **certlm.msc**, and then press Enter. The  **certlm** console opens with **Local Computer** as its focus.

2. Expand  **Personal**, and then click  **Certificates**. 

3. Verify that a certificate has been enrolled with a friendly name of "Configuration Manager Web Services." This certificate was enrolled in Module 1, "Extending the Configuration Manager infrastructure to support Internet-based and mobile devices."

4. Close the  **certlm** window.

5. Click  **Start**, and then click  **Server Manager**. 

6. Click  **Tools**, and then click  **Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager**. 

7. Expand  **LON-CFG**, expand  **Sites**, and then click  **Default Web Site**.

8. In the Actions pane, click  **Bindings**.

9. In the  **Site Bindings** box, select **https**, and then click  **Edit**. Verify that a Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) certificate named "Configuration Manager Web Services" is bound to port 443. This was configured in Module 1, "Extending the Configuration Manager infrastructure to support Internet-based and mobile devices."

10. Click  **Cancel**, click  **Close**, close Microsoft Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager, and then close  **Server Manager**.

11. On the taskbar, click  **File Explorer**.

12. Browse to  **C:\**.

13. Verify that a file named  **ConfigMgrDPCertificate.pfx** exists. This file was exported in Module 1, "Extending the Configuration Manager infrastructure to support Internet-based and mobile devices."

14. Close File Explorer.

15. Switch to  **LON-CL1**.

16. On  **LON-CL1**, click  **Start**, type  **certlm.msc**, and then press Enter. The certlm console opens with  **Local Computer** as its focus.

17. Expand  **Personal**, and then click  **Certificates**. 

18. Verify that a certificate has been enrolled for client authentication by using the Configuration Manager client certificate. This certificate was enrolled in Module 1, "Extending the Configuration Manager infrastructure to support Internet-based and mobile devices."

19. Close the  **certlm** window.



#### Task 2: Configure HTTPS for the Configuration Manager roles
  
1. Switch to  **LON-CFG**.

2. On  **LON-CFG**, on the taskbar, click  **Configuration Manager Console**.

3. In the  **Configuration Manager console**, click the  **Administration** workspace.

4. In the navigation pane, expand  **Site Configuration**, and then click  **Servers and Site System Roles**.

5. In the results pane, click  **\\LON-CFG.Adatum.com**, and then in the preview pane, right-click  **Site system**, and then click  **Properties**.

6. In the  **Site system Properties** dialog box, verify that **Specify an FQDN for this site system for use on the Internet** is selected.

7. In the  **Internet FQDN** box, verify that **LON-CFG.Adatum.com** displays, and then click **OK**.

8. In the preview pane, right-click  **Distribution point**, and then click  **Properties**.

9. In the  **Distribution point Properties** dialog box, on the **General** tab, select **Import certificate**, and then click  **Browse**.

10. In the  **Open** dialog box, browse to and click the **C:\ConfigMgrDPCertificate.pfx** certificate file, and then click **Open**.

11. On the  **General** tab, in the **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**.

12. On the  **General** tab, click **HTTPS**, and then under  **Requires computers to have a valid PKI client certificate**, select  **Allow intranet and Internet connections**.

13. Select the check box next to  **Allow mobile devices to connect to the distribution point**, and then click  **OK**.

14. In the preview pane, right-click  **Management point**, and then click  **Properties**.

15. In the  **Management point Properties** dialog box, on the **General** tab, click **HTTPS**, and then under  **This option requires client computers to have a valid PKI client certificate for client authentication**, select  **Allow intranet and Internet connections**.

16. Select the  **Allow mobile devices and Mac computers to use this management point** check box, and then click **OK**.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have verified that the PKI requirements are in place and configured HTTPS support for the management point and distribution point in Configuration Manager.


## Exercise 2: Verify the client settings for IBCM
  
#### Task 1: Verify that LON-CL1 is configured for IBCM
  
1. Switch to  **LON-CL1**.

2. On  **LON-CL1**, click  **Start**, type  **Control Panel**, and then press Enter.

3. Click  **System and Security**. 

4. Click  **Configuration Manager**.

5. In the  **Configuration Manager Properties** box verify that **Client Certificate** shows **PKI**.

6. Verify that  **Connection Type** shows **Currently intranet**. This shows that the client is currently being managed as a typical System Center Configuration Manager client on the corporate network. Click  **OK**.

7. Right-click  **Start**, and then click  **Network Connections**.

8. Right-click  **Ethernet**, and then click  **Disable**.

9. Right-click  **Internet** and then click **Enable**. This simulates the client being on a different network, such as the Internet.

10. Right click  **Start**, and then click  **Command Prompt**.

11. At the command prompt type the following commands, pressing Enter after each one:

  ```
  Net stop ccmexec
Net start ccmexec
  ```

12. Switch back to Control Panel.

13. Click  **Configuration Manager**.

14. Verify that  **Connection Type** shows **Currently Internet**. This shows that the client is currently being managed as an Internet-based client. Click  **OK**.
>  **Note:** If the connection shows **Currently intranet**, wait a few minutes, and then reopen  **Configuration Manager Properties**.
15.  Repeat steps 7 through 14, but enable the Ethernet connection and disable the Internet connection. The connection should change back to **Currently intranet**.



#### Task 2: Prepare for the next lab
  
- Keep the virtual machines running for the next lab.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have verified the client settings for IBCM.



# Lab B: Configuring the Cloud Management Gateway for managing clients on the Internet
  
## Exercise 1: Enabling the Cloud Management Gateway feature
  
#### Task 1: Configure consent to use pre-release features
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, from the taskbar, start the  **Configuration Manager console**.

2. In the  **Configuration Manager console**, click the  **Administration** workspace.

3. Expand  **Site Configuration**, and then click the  **Sites** node.

4. Right-click  **Sites**, and then click  **Hierarchy Settings**.

5. In the  **Hierarchy Settings Properties** dialog box, on the **General** tab, select the check box next to **Consent to use Pre-Release features**.

6. To close the  **Hierarchy Settings Properties** dialog box, click **OK**.



#### Task 2: Enable the Cloud Management Gateway feature
  
1. In the  **Configuration Manager console**, click the  **Administration** workspace.

2. Expand  **Updates and Servicing**, and then click the  **Features** node.

3. In the details pane, select  **Pre-release - Cloud Management Gateway**.

4. On the ribbon, click  **Turn on**.

5. In the  **Configuration Manager** message box, click **Yes**.

6. Close the  **Configuration Manager console**.

7. On  **LON-CFG**, from the taskbar, start the  **Configuration Manager console**.

8. In the  **Configuration Manager console**, click the  **Administration** workspace.

9. Expand  **Cloud Services**, and then click the  **Cloud Management Gateway** node. The existence of this node shows that the feature is now installed.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have enabled the Cloud Management Gateway feature.


## Exercise 2: Creating and exporting the Azure management certificate for cloud-based distribution points
  
#### Task 1: Create and issue the Azure management certificate
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, from Server Manager, click  **Tools**, and then click  **Certification Authority**.

2. In the  **Certification Authorit**y console, expand  **AdatumCA**, and then click  **Certificate Templates**.

3. Right-click the  **Certificate Templates** folder, and then click **Manage**. The  **Certificate Templates console** opens.

4. In the results pane, right-click  **Web Server**, and then click  **Duplicate Template**.

5. On the  **Compatibility** tab, ensure that the **Windows Server 2003** option is selected.

6. In the  **Properties of New Template** dialog box, on the **General** tab, in the **Template display name** box, type **Cloud Management Gateway Management Certificate**.

7. Click the  **Request Handling** tab, and then select the check box next to **Allow private key to be exported**.

8. On the  **Security** tab, under **Group or user names**, click  **Enterprise Admins**, and then clear the  **Enroll** check box.

9. On the  **Security** tab, click **Add**. In the  **Select Users, Computers, Service Accounts or Groups** dialog box, in the **Enter the object names to select** box, type **Configuration Manager IIS Servers**, click  **Check Names**, and then click  **OK**.

10. Click  **Configuration Manager IIS Servers**, select the  **Enroll** check box, and then click **OK**. (Make sure that  **Read** remains selected.)

11. Close the  **Certificate Templates console**.

12. In the  **Certification Authority console**, in the navigation pane, verify that you're still in the  **Certificate Templates** folder.

13. Right-click the  **Certificate Templates** folder, point to **New**, and then click  **Certificate Template to Issue**.

14. In the  **Enable Certificate Templates** dialog box, click **Cloud Management Gateway Management Certificate**.

15. In the  **Enable Certificate Templates** dialog box, click **OK**, and then close the  **Certification Authority console**.



#### Task 2: Request the Azure management certificate
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, click  **Start**, type  **certlm.msc**, and then press Enter. The certlm console opens with  **Local Computer** as its focus.

2. In the certlm console, expand  **Certificates (Local Computer)**, expand  **Personal**, and then click  **Certificates**.

3. Right-click  **Certificates**, point to  **All Tasks**, and then click  **Request New Certificate**.

4. On the  **Before You Begin** page of the **Certificate Enrollment Wizard**, click  **Next**.

5. On the  **Select Certificate Enrollment Policy** page, click **Next**.

6. On the  **Request Certificates** page, select the **Cloud Management Gateway Management Certificate** check box, and then click the **More information is required to enroll for this certificate. Click here to configure settings** link.

7. In the  **Certificate Properties** dialog box, on the **Subject** tab, under the **Subject name** area, in the **Type** list, select **Common name**.

8. In the  **Value** box, type **cmg&lt; _YourInitialsMMDDYY_&gt;.cloudapp.net**, and then click  **Add**. (Where  ** _YourInitialsMMDDYY_** is a unique name consisting of your initials and the current month, day, and year).

9. In the  **Certificate Properties** dialog box, on the **Subject** tab, under the **Alternative name** area, in the **Type** list, select **DNS**.

10. In the  **Value** box, type **cmg&lt; _YourInitialsMMDDYY_&gt;.cloudapp.net**, and then click  **Add**. (Where  ** _YourInitialsMMDDYY_** is a unique name consisting of your initials and the current month, day, and year). Click **OK**.

11. On the  **Request Certificates** page, click **Enroll**.

12. On the  **Certificates Installation Results** page, wait until the certificate is installed, and then click **Finish**.



#### Task 3: Export the Azure management certificate
  
1. In the  **certlm** window, expand **Personal**, and then select  **Certificates**.

2. In the results pane, right-click the certificate named  **cmg&lt; _YourInitialsMMDDYY_&gt;.cloudapp.net**, point to  **All Tasks**, and then click  **Export**. The  **Certificate Export Wizard** opens.

3. On the  **Welcome to the Certificate Export Wizard** page, click **Next**.

4. On the  **Export Private Key** page, select **Yes, export the private key**, and then click  **Next**.

5. On the  **Export File Format** page, ensure that the **Personal Information Exchange - PKCS #12 (.PFX)** option is selected, and then click **Next**.

6. On the  **Security** page, select the **Password** check box, and then in both the **Password** and **Confirm password** boxes, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then click  **Next**.

7. On the  **File to Export** page, in the **File name** box, type **C:\CMGCertificate.pfx**, and then click  **Next**.

8. On the  **Completing the Certificate Export Wizard** page, click **Finish**.

9. In the  **Certificate Export Wizard** dialog box, click **OK**.

10. Repeat steps 1 through 9, but on the  **Export Private Key** page, select **No, do not export the private key**. Also:

  - For the export file format select  **DER encoded binary X.509 (.CER)**.

  - Name the file.  **C:\CMGCertificate.cer**



#### Task 4: Export the AdatumCA root certificate
  
1. In the  **certlm** window, expand **Personal**, and then select  **Certificates**.

2. In the results pane, double-click the certificate named  **LON-CFG.Adatum.com** which is based upon the **Configuration Manager Client Certificate** template. The **Certificate** window opens.

3. Click the  **Certification Path** page.

4. Double-click  **AdatumCA**. The  **Certificate** page for the root certificate opens.

5. Click the  **Details** page, and then click **Copy to File**.

6. On the  **Welcome to the Certificate Export Wizard** page, click **Next**.

7. On the  **Export File Format** page, ensure that the **DER encoded binary X.509 (.CER)** option is selected, and then click **Next**.

8. On the  **File to Export** page, in the **File name** box, type **C:\rootcert.cer**, and then click  **Next**.

9. On the  **Completing the Certificate Export Wizard** page, click **Finish**.

10. In the  **Certificate Export Wizard** dialog box, click **OK**.

11. Close all the certificate boxes.

12. Close the  **certlm** console.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have created and exported the Azure management certificate to be used for cloud-based distribution points.


## Exercise 3: Setting up the Cloud Management Gateway
  
#### Task 1: Upload the Azure management certificate to Azure
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, open Internet Explorer, and then browse to https://portal.azure.com. Sign in with your Microsoft account that's associated with your Microsoft Azure trial subscription.

2. In the navigation pane, click  **Azure Active Directory**.

3. In the Azure Active Directory pane, click  **Classic portal**. Sign in with your Microsoft account that's associated with your Azure trial subscription.

4. In the navigation pane, scroll down, and then click  **SETTINGS**.

5. On the  **settings** page, click **MANAGEMENT CERTIFICATES**.

6. Click  **UPLOAD**.

7. In the  **Upload a management certificate** area, click **BROWSE FOR FILE**.

8. In the  **Choose File to Upload** dialog box, browse to **C:\**, and then select  **CMGCertificate.cer**.

9. Click  **Open**, and then click the check mark to start the upload. In a few moments, the certificate will be displayed on the  **MANAGEMENT CERTIFICATES** page.

10. Take note of the subscription ID. Write down the subscription ID, because you'll need it for the next task.

11. Close Internet Explorer.



#### Task 2: Set up the Cloud Management Gateway
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, on the taskbar, click  **Configuration Manager Console**.

2. In the  **Configuration Manager console**, click the  **Administration** workspace.

3. Expand  **Cloud Services**, and then click  **Cloud Management Gateway**.

4. On the ribbon, click  **Create Cloud Management Gateway**. The  **Create Cloud Management Gateway Wizard** starts.

5. On the  **General** page, next to **Subscription ID**, type the subscription ID that you wrote down in the previous task.

6. Next to  **Management certificate**, click  **Browse**.

7. Browse to  **C:\**, and then select  **CMGcertificate.pfx**. Click  **Open**, and then provide the password  **Pa55w.rd**. Click  **OK**.

8. On the  **General** page, click **Next**.

9. On the  **Settings** page, next to **Certificate file**, click  **Browse**. 

10. Browse to  **C:\**, and then select  **CMGcertificate.pfx**. Click  **Open**, and then provide the password  **Pa55w.rd**. Click  **OK**.

11. Next to  **Certificates uploaded to the cloud service**, click  **Certificates**.

12. In the  **Certificates uploaded to the cloud service** area, click **Add.**

13. Select  **C:\rootcert.cer**, click  **Open**, and then click  **OK**.

14. Remove the check mark next to  **Verify Client Certificate Revocation**, and then click  **Next**.

15. On the  **Alerts** page, click **Next**:

16. On the  **Summary** page, click **Next**.

17. On the  **Completion** page, click **Close**.

18. In the  **Configuration Manager console**, with  **Cloud Management Gateway** selected, verify that **cmg&lt;YourInitialsMMDDYY&gt;.cloudapp.net** shows a status of **Ready**. This might take up to 10 minutes. 



#### Task 3: Add the Cloud Management Gateway connector
  
1. In the  **Configuration Manager console**, click the  **Administration** workspace.

2. Expand  **Site Configuration**, and then click  **Servers and Site System Roles**.

3. In the details pane, right-click  **\\LON-CFG-Adatum.com**, and then click  **Add Site System Roles**.

4. On the  **General** page, click **Next**.

5. On the  **Proxy** page, click **Next**.

6. On the  **System Role Selection** page, select the check box next to **Cloud management gateway connection point**, and then click  **Next**.

7. On the  **Cloud management gateway connection point** page, click **Next**.

8. On the  **Summary** page, click **Next**.

9. On the  **Completion** page, click **Close**.



#### Task 4: Configure site system roles to support the Cloud Management Gateway
  
1. In the  **Configuration Manager console**, click the  **Administration** workspace.

2. Expand  **Site Configuration** and then click **Servers and Site System Roles**.

3. In the details pane, click  **\\LON-CFG-Adatum.com**.

4. In the results pane, right-click  **Management Point**, and then click  **Properties**.

5. On the  **Management point Properties** page, select the check box to enable the **Allow Configuration Manager cloud management gateway traffic** option.

6. To close the  **Management point Properties** page, click **OK**.



#### Task 5: Verify that LON-CL1 is configured for the Cloud Management Gateway
  
1. Switch to  **LON-CL1**.

2. Right click  **Start**, and then click  **Command Prompt**.

3. At the command prompt, type the following commands, pressing Enter after each one:

  ```
  Net stop ccmexec
Net start ccmexec
PowerShell
  ```

4. At the Windows PowerShell prompt, type the following, and then press Enter:

  ```
  gwmi -namespace root\ccm\locationservices -class SMS_ActiveMPCandidate
  ```

5. Take note of the results. Notice that two  **SMS_ActiveMPCandidate** entries exist: one for the Internet-based Cloud Management Gateway and another for the management point role on **LON-CFG-Adatum.com**. This shows that the client is aware of the Cloud Management Gateway and can use it.

6. Close all open windows.



#### Task 6: Stop the Cloud Management Gateway service
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, switch to the  **Configuration Manager console**.

2. In the  **Configuration Manager console**, click the  **Administration** workspace.

3. Expand  **Cloud Services,** and then click **Cloud Management Gateway**.

4. In the details pane, right-click  **cmg&lt; _YourInitialsMMDDYY_&gt;.cloudapp.net**, and then click  **Stop service**. Verify that the status shows  **Stopped**.

5. Close all open windows on  **LON-CFG**.

>  **Note:** You perform this task to minimize the resource cost allocated against your Azure trial subscription.


#### Task 7: Prepare for the next module
  
- At the end of the lab, shut down the virtual machines. However, don't revert the virtual machines, because you'll need the current state for later modules.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have set up Azure and created the Cloud Management Gateway.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  