# Module 2: Managing clients on the Internet
# Lab A: Configuring IBCM
  
### Scenario
  
 You have several Internet-based clients that you want to manage by using Configuration Manager. You decide to configure IBCM for these devices. The PKI is already in place in the Adatum.com domain, and the certificate templates have been created. You need to verify that the certificates are in place and prepare the infrastructure to support IBCM.


### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Configure the Configuration Manager site systems to support IBCM.

- Verify client settings to ensure that a device can be managed as an Internet-based client.


  **Note**: The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Intune and other cloud services referenced in the course. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup
  
 Estimated time: 30 minutes

Virtual machines:  **20703-2B-LON-DC1-A**,  **20703-2B-LON-CFG-A**, and  **20703-2B-LON-CL1-A**

 User name:  **Adatum\\Administrator**

 Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

 For this lab, you will use the available virtual machine environment. Before you begin the lab, complete the following steps:

1. On the host computer, start Microsoft Hyper-V Manager.

2. In Hyper-V Manager, click  **20703-2B-LON-DC1-A**, and then in the Actions pane, click  **Start**.

3. In the Actions pane, click  **Connect**. Wait until the virtual machine starts. 

4. Sign in by using the following credentials: 

  - User name:  **Adatum\\Administrator**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

5. Repeat steps 2 through 4 for virtual machines  **20703-2B-LON-CFG-A** and **20703-2B-LON-CL1-A**.


 To successfully complete this lab, you need to have first completed Lab B, "Implementing PKI for Configuration Manager site systems and clients," in Module 1, "Extending the Configuration Manager infrastructure to support Internet-based and mobile devices."


## Exercise 1: Configuring the Configuration Manager site systems to support IBCM
  
### Scenario
  
 You have previously created and requested the PKI certificates that will be used with your IBCM solution. You now have to verify that the certificates are in place and configure the management point and distribution point roles to support HTTPS.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Verify that the PKI certificates are in place

2. Configure HTTPS for the Configuration Manager roles



#### Task 1: Verify that the PKI certificates are in place
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, use the  **certlm.msc** command to open the certlm console.

2. Verify that a certificate has been enrolled with a friendly name of "Configuration Manager Web Services." This certificate was enrolled in Module 1, "Extending the Configuration Manager infrastructure to support Internet-based and mobile devices."

3. Close the  **certlm** window.

4. From Server Manager, open IIS Manager.

5. From the site bindings, verify that an SSL certificate named "Configuration Manager Web Services" is bound to port 443. This was configured in Module 1, "Extending the Configuration Manager infrastructure to support Internet-based and mobile devices."

6. Close IIS Manager, and then close Server Manager.

7. Open File Explorer, and then browse to  **C:\\**.

8. Verify that a file named  **ConfigMgrDPCertificate.pfx** exists. This file was exported in Module 1, "Extending the Configuration Manager infrastructure to support Internet-based and mobile devices."

9. Close File Explorer.

10. Switch to  **LON-CL1**.

11. On  **LON-CL1**, use the  **certlm.msc** command to open the certlm console.

12. Verify that a certificate has been enrolled for client authentication by using the Configuration Manager client certificate. This certificate was enrolled in Module 1, "Extending the Configuration Manager infrastructure to support Internet-based and mobile devices."

13. Close the  **certlm** window.



#### Task 2: Configure HTTPS for the Configuration Manager roles
  
1. Switch to  **LON-CFG**.

2. On  **LON-CFG**, from the taskbar, start the  **Configuration Manager console**.

3. In the  **Administration** workspace, expand **Site Configuration**, and then click  **Servers and Site System Roles**.

4. In the results pane, select  **\\\\LON-CFG.Adatum.com**, and then in the preview pane, access the properties for the site system.

5. In the  **Site system Properties** dialog box, verify the properties as follows:

  -  **Specify an FQDN for this site system for use on the Internet** is selected.

  - In the  **Internet FQDN** box, **LON-CFG.Adatum.com** displays, and then close the dialog box.

6. In the preview pane, access the properties for the distribution point.

7. In the  **Distribution point Properties** dialog box:

  - On the  **General** tab, select **Import certificate**, and then browse to and click the  **C:\\ConfigMgrDPCertificate.pfx** certificate file.

  - In the  **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**.

  - Select  **HTTPS**, and then under  **Requires computers to have a valid PKI client certificate**, select  **Allow intranet and Internet connections**.

  - Select the  **Allow mobile devices to connect to the distribution point** check box, and then close the dialog box.

8. In the preview pane, access the properties for the management point.

9. In the  **Management point Properties** dialog box:

  - On the  **Genera**l tab, click  **HTTPS**, and then under  **This option requires client computers to have a valid PKI client certificate for client authentication**, select  **Allow intranet and Internet connections**.

  - Select the  **Allow mobile devices and Mac computers to use this management point** check box, and then close the dialog box.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have verified that the PKI requirements are in place and configured HTTPS support for the management point and distribution point in Configuration Manager.


## Exercise 2: Verify the client settings for IBCM
  
### Scenario
  
 Your final task is to verify that a client can switch between the intranet and Internet management settings. You will change the network location for  **LON-CL1** and verify that the Configuration Manager client detects its network location.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Verify that LON-CL1 is configured for IBCM

2. Prepare for the next lab



#### Task 1: Verify that LON-CL1 is configured for IBCM
  
1. Switch to  **LON-CL1**.

2. On  **LON-CL1**, open Control Panel.

3. Open the Configuration Manager client program.

4. In the  **Configuration Manager Properties** box, verify that **Client Certificate** shows **PKI**.

5. Verify that  **Connection Type** shows **Currently intranet**. This shows that the client is currently being managed as a typical Configuration Manager client on the corporate network. 

6. Close the  **Configuration Manager Properties** box.

7. Open  **Network Connections**, and then disable the  **Ethernet** connection.

8. Enable the  **Internet** connection. This simulates the client being on a different network, such as the Internet.

9. Right-click  **Start**, and then click  **Command Prompt**.

10. At the command prompt, type the following commands, pressing Enter after each one:

  ```
  Net stop ccmexec
Net start ccmexec
  ```

11. Switch back to Control Panel.

12. Open the  **Configuration Manager Properties** dialog box.

13. Verify that  **Connection Type** shows **Currently Internet**. This shows that the client is currently being managed as an Internet-based client. Click  **OK**.
>  **Note:** If the connection shows **Currently intranet**, wait a few minutes, and then reopen  **Configuration Manager Properties**.
14. Repeat steps 7 through 13, but enable the Ethernet connection and disable the Internet connection. The connection should change back to  **Currently intranet**.



#### Task 2: Prepare for the next lab
  
- Keep the virtual machines running for the next lab.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have verified the client settings for IBCM.



## 
  
**Question** 
List the three types of certificates that you need to configure to support IBCM in Configuration Manager.

**Question** 
You add a new distribution point to the Configuration Manager environment. What do you need to do to make it accessible to both intranet and Internet clients?

**Question** 
You want to make sure that a new distribution point is accessible only from Internet clients. What should you do?



# Lab B: Configuring the Cloud Management Gateway for managing clients on the Internet
  
### Scenario
  
 With the new initiative to integrate cloud-based services with Configuration Manager, you have decided to test the Cloud Management Gateway for managing clients on the Internet. You will configure the certificate requirements and then set up the Cloud Management Gateway. You will also configure the Cloud Management Gateway connector point and the management point to support the Cloud Management Gateway service.


### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Enable the Cloud Management Gateway feature.

- Create and export the Azure management certificate.

- Set up the Cloud Management Gateway.


  **Note**: The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Intune and other cloud services referenced in the course. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup
  
 Estimated time: 30 minutes

Virtual machines:  **20703-2B-LON-DC1-A**,  **20703-2B-LON-CFG-A**, and  **20703-2B-LON-CL1-A**

 User name:  **Adatum\\Administrator**

 Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

 For this lab, you will use the available virtual machine environment. The virtual machines should still be running from the previous lab. If not, before you begin the lab, complete the following steps:

1. On the host computer, click  **Start**, point to  **Administrative Tools**, and then click  **Hyper-V Manager**.

2. In Hyper-V Manager, click  **20703-2B-LON-DC1-A**, and then in the Actions pane, click  **Start**.

3. In the Actions pane, click  **Connect**. Wait until the virtual machine starts. 

4. Sign in by using the following credentials: 

  - User name:  **Adatum\\Administrator**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

5. Repeat steps 2 through 4 for virtual machine  **20703-2B-LON-CFG-A** and **20703-2B-LON-CL1-A**.


 For on-premises virtual machine environments only, start virtual machine  **MT17B-WS2016-NAT** to provide Internet access for the virtual machines.

 All labs from Module 1 must be successfully completed before starting this lab.


## Exercise 1: Enabling the Cloud Management Gateway feature
  
### Scenario
  
 As of Configuration Manager 1702, the Cloud Management Gateway feature is in pre-release status. Before you can implement the feature, you need to enable it.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Configure consent to use pre-release features

2. Enable the Cloud Management Gateway feature



#### Task 1: Configure consent to use pre-release features
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, from the taskbar, start the  **Configuration Manager console**.

2. From the  **Administration** workspace, browse to the **Sites** node, and then open the **Hierarchy Settings Properties** dialog box.

3. On the  **General** tab, enable the following:

  -  **Consent to use Pre-Release features**

4. To close the  **Hierarchy Settings Properties** dialog box, click **OK**.



#### Task 2: Enable the Cloud Management Gateway feature
  
1. In the  **Configuration Manager console**, in the  **Administration** workspace, browse to **Updates and Servicing**, and then select the  **Features** node.

2. Select and then turn on the  **Pre-release - Cloud Management Gateway** feature.

3. Close and then reopen the  **Configuration Manager console**.

4. In the  **Configuration Manager console**, in the  **Administration** workspace, browse to **Cloud Services**, and then select the  **Cloud Management Gateway** node. The existence of this node shows that the feature is now installed.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have enabled the Cloud Management Gateway feature.


## Exercise 2: Creating and exporting the Azure management certificate for cloud-based distribution points
  
### Scenario
  
 To support the Cloud Management Gateway, you must create and issue a certificate that will be used as an Azure management certificate. You will also export this certificate to both a .cer file and a .pfx file to be used by Azure and Configuration Manager, respectively. You decide to name the certificate  **cloudmgw.cloudapp.net**. You will also export a copy of the AdatumCA root certificate, which you will upload to Azure in a later step.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create and issue the Azure management certificate

2. Request the Azure management certificate

3. Export the Azure management certificate

4. Export the AdatumCA root certificate



#### Task 1: Create and issue the Azure management certificate
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, from Server Manager, start the  **Certification Authority console**.

2. In the  **Certification Authority console**, right-click the  **Certificate Templates** folder, and then click **Manage**. The  **Certificate Templates console** opens.

3. Duplicate the Web Server template, and then on the  **Compatibility** tab, ensure that the **Windows Server 2003** option is selected.

4. In the  **Properties of New Template** dialog box:

  - On the  **General** tab, name the template Cloud Management Gateway Management Certificate.

  - Click the  **Request Handling** tab, and then select the check box next to **Allow private key to be exported**.

  - On the  **Security** tab, remove the Enroll permission from the Enterprise Admins security group.

  - On the  **Security** tab, add the Configuration Manager IIS Servers group, and then grant the Read and Enroll permissions to that group.

5. Close the  **Certificate Templates console**.

6. If necessary, in the navigation pane of the  **Certification Authority console**, expand the  **AdatumCA** node, and then click **Certificates Templates**.

7. Enable the certificate named Cloud Management Gateway Management Certificate.

8. Close the  **Certification Authority console**.



#### Task 2: Request the Azure management certificate
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, click  **Start**, type  **certlm.msc**, and then press Enter. The certlm console opens with  **Local Computer** as its focus.

2. In the  **certlm** window, expand **Certificates (Local Computer)**, expand  **Personal**, and then click  **Certificates**. 

3. Right-click  **Certificates**, and then select the  **Request New Certificate** option.

4. In the  **Certificate Enrollment Wizard**, request a new certificate by completing the following steps:
On the  **Request Certificates** page, select the **Cloud Management Gateway Management Certificate** check box, and then click **More information is required to enroll for this certificate. Click here to configure settings.**

On the  **Subject** tab, in the **Subject name** area, in the **Type** list, select **Common name**, and then in the  **Value** box, type **cmg&lt; _YourInitialsMMDDYY_&gt;.cloudapp.net**, and then click  **Add**. (Where  ** _YourInitialsMMDDYY_** is a unique name consisting of your initials and the current month, day, and year).

On the  **Subject** tab, in the **Alternative name** area, in the **Type** list, select **DNS**, and then in the  **Value** box, type **cmg&lt; _YourInitialsMMDDYY_&gt;.cloudapp.net**, and then click  **Add**. (Where  ** _YourInitialsMMDDYY_** is a unique name consisting of your initials and the current month, day, and year).

Complete the request, wait until the certificate is installed, and then click  **Finish**.



#### Task 3: Export the Azure management certificate
  
1. In the  **certlm** window, expand **Personal**, and then select  **Certificates**.

2. Select the certificate named  **cmg&lt; _YourInitialsMMDDYY_&gt;.cloudapp.net**, right-click the certificate, click  **All Tasks**, and then select  **Export**. The  **Certificate Export Wizard** opens.

3. In the  **Certificate Export Wizard**, complete the following steps to export the certificate:
On the  **Export Private Key** page, select **Yes, export the private key**.

On the  **Export File Format** page, ensure that the **Personal Information Exchange - PKCS #12 (.PFX)** option is selected.

On the  **Security** page, type **Pa55w.rd** in both the **Password** and **Confirm password** boxes.

On the  **File to Export** page, in the **File name** box, type **C:\\CMGCertificate.pfx**.

Complete the export of the certificate.

4. Repeat steps 1 through 3, but on the  **Export Private Key** page, select **No, do not export the private key**. Also:

  - For the export file format, select  **DER encoded binary X.509 (.CER)**.

  - Name the file  **C:\\CMGCertificate.cer**.



#### Task 4: Export the AdatumCA root certificate
  
1. In the  **certlm** window, expand **Personal**, and then select  **Certificates**.

2. In the results pane, double-click the certificate named  **LON-CFG.Adatum.com** which is based upon the **Configuration Manager Client Certificate** template. The **Certificate** window opens.

3. Click the  **Certification Path** page.

4. Double-click  **AdatumCA**. The  **Certificate** page for the root certificate opens.

5. Click the  **Details** page, and then click **Copy to File**.

6. In the  **Welcome to the Certificate Export Wizard**, configure the following information.

  - On the  **Export File Format** page, ensure that the **DER encoded binary X.509 (.CER)** option is selected.

  - Name the file  **C:\\rootcert.cer**.

7. Close all the certificate boxes.

8. Close the  **certlm** console.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have created and exported the Azure management certificate to be used for cloud-based distribution points.


## Exercise 3: Setting up the Cloud Management Gateway
  
### Scenario
  
 To install the Cloud Management Gateway, you first need to upload the Azure management certificate by using the Azure portal. You will then use Configuration Manager to create the Cloud Management Gateway in Azure.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Upload the Azure management certificate to Azure

2. Set up the Cloud Management Gateway

3. Add the Cloud Management Gateway connector

4. Configure site system roles to support the Cloud Management Gateway

5. Verify that LON-CL1 is configured for the Cloud Management Gateway

6. Stop the Cloud Management Gateway service

7. Prepare for the next module



#### Task 1: Upload the Azure management certificate to Azure
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, open Internet Explorer, and then browse to https://portal.azure.com. Sign in with your Microsoft account that's associated with your Azure trial subscription.

2. From the  **All Services** page, click **Subscriptions**.

3. From the  **Subscriptions** page, select your subscription and then from the **Management certificates** blade, upload the new management certificate from **C:\\CMGCertificate.cer**. 

4. Verify that the certificate has been uploaded, and take note of the subscription ID. Write down the subscription ID, because you'll need it for the next task. 

5. Close Internet Explorer. 



#### Task 2: Set up the Cloud Management Gateway
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, from the taskbar, start the  **Configuration Manager console**.

2. From the  **Administration** workspace, select the **Cloud Management Gateway** node.

3. Create the Cloud Management Gateway by using the following options:

  -  **Subscription ID**: The subscription ID that you wrote down in the previous task.

  -  **Management Certificate**: C:\\CMGcertificate.pfx (the password is  **Pa55w.rd**).

  -  **Certificate file**: C:\\CMGcertificate.pfx (the password is  **Pa55w.rd**).

  -  **Certificates uploaded to the cloud service**: C:\\rootcert.cer.

  -  **Verify Client Certificate Revocation:** Not selected.

  -  **Alerts**: The default settings.

4. In the  **Configuration Manager console**, with  **Cloud Distribution Points** selected, verify that **cmg&lt;YourInitialsMMDDYY&gt;.cloudapp.net** shows a status of **Ready**. This might take up to 10 minutes. 



#### Task 3: Add the Cloud Management Gateway connector
  
1. In the  **Configuration Manager console**, click the  **Administration** workspace.

2. Expand  **Site Configuration**, and then click  **Servers and Site System Roles**.

3. In the details pane, right-click  **\\\\LON-CFG-Adatum.com**, and then click  **Add Site System Roles**.

4. Add the Cloud Management Gateway connection point with the default settings.



#### Task 4: Configure site system roles to support the Cloud Management Gateway
  
1. In the  **Configuration Manager console**, click the  **Administration** workspace.

2. Expand  **Site Configuration**, and then click  **Servers and Site System Roles**.

3. In the details pane, click  **\\\\LON-CFG-Adatum.com**.

4. Configure the management point role, and then enable the  **Allow Configuration Manager cloud management gateway traffic** option.



#### Task 5: Verify that LON-CL1 is configured for the Cloud Management Gateway
  
1. Switch to  **LON-CL1**.

2. Right-click  **Start**, and then click  **Command Prompt**.

3. At the command prompt, type the following commands, pressing Enter after each one:

  ```
  Net stop ccmexec
Net start ccmexec
PowerShell
  ```

4. At the Windows PowerShell prompt, type the following, and then press Enter:

  ```
  gwmi -namespace root\ccm\locationservices -class SMS_ActiveMPCandidate
  ```

5. Take note of the results. Notice that two  **SMS_ActiveMPCandidate** entries exist: one for the Internet-based Cloud Management Gateway and another for the management point role on **LON-CFG-Adatum.com**. This shows that the client is aware of the Cloud Management Gateway and can use it.

6. Close all open windows.



#### Task 6: Stop the Cloud Management Gateway service
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, switch to the  **Configuration Manager console**.

2. From the  **Administration** workspace, select the **Cloud Management Gateway** node.

3. In the details pane, right-click  **cmg&lt; _YourInitialsMMDDYY_&gt;.cloudapp.net**, and then click  **Stop service.** Verify that the status shows **Stopped**.

4. Close all open windows on  **LON-CFG**.

>  **Note:** You perform this task to minimize the resource cost allocated against your Azure trial subscription.


#### Task 7: Prepare for the next module
  
- At the end of the lab, shut down the virtual machines. However, don't revert the virtual machines, because you'll need the current state for later modules.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have set up Azure and created the Cloud Management Gateway.



## 
  
**Question** 
You attempt to turn on the Cloud Management Gateway feature, but the button is unavailable. What do you have to do first?

**Question** 
What is the purpose of exporting the Azure management certificate twice?

**Question** 
What do you need to do to ensure that clients can resolve the cloudmgw.cloudapp.net DNS name to the Cloud Management Gateway service?



©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  