# Module 3: Managing Microsoft Store for Business apps by using Configuration Manager
# Lab A: Setting up and managing Microsoft Store for Business
  
### Scenario
  
 You are the enterprise administrator for Adatum Corporation. Your organization is using Configuration Manager to manage computers and other devices and has recently implemented Azure AD. Company management learned about several modern Windows apps and asked you to research and test how to implement those apps in the organization.

You located the apps in Windows Store, and you want to deploy them to company employees by using Microsoft Store for Business. Because Adatum does not have Microsoft Store for Business yet, you first need to sign up for it. After that you need to perform basic customization, delegate permissions in the store to several junior administrators, explore licensing options, and test how to manage and deploy apps from Microsoft Store for Business to company employees.

 If testing goes well, in the next phase, you plan to connect Configuration Manager with Microsoft Store for Business, and use Configuration Manager for deploying apps that were purchased in Microsoft Store for Business.


### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Sign up for Microsoft Store for Business and perform initial configuration.

- Work with roles in Microsoft Store for Business and configure client devices to access Microsoft Store for Business.

>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Intune and other cloud services referenced in the course. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup
  
 Estimated time: 30 minutes

Virtual machines:  **20703-2A-LON-DC1-A**,  **20703-2A-LON-CFG-A**,  **20703-2A-LON-CL1-A**, and  **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**

 User name:  **Adatum\\Administrator**

 Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

 For this lab, you will use the available virtual machine (VM) environment. Before you begin the lab, you must complete the following steps:

1. On the host computer, start Hyper-V Manager.

2. In Hyper-V Manager, click  **20703-2A-LON-DC1-A**, and then in the Actions pane, click  **Start**.

3. In the Actions pane, click  **Connect**. Wait until the VM starts.

4. Sign in by using the following credentials:

  - User name:  **Administrator**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

  - Domain:  **Adatum**

5. Repeat steps 2 through 4 for  **20703-2A-LON-CFG-A** and **20703-2A-LON-CL1-A**.

6. To access the Internet, start  **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**. You don't need to sign in to  **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**.



## Exercise 1: Signing up for Microsoft Store for Business
  
### Scenario
  
 Adatum is already using Azure AD, but it does not have Microsoft Store for Business. Before you can test Microsoft Store for Business features, you must sign up for it. After that, you want to explore the store and rename the private store to  **Adatum Store**.

The main task for this exercise is as follows:

- Sign up for Microsoft Store for Business and perform initial configuration



#### Task 1: Sign up for Microsoft Store for Business and perform initial configuration
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, use Internet Explorer to go to Microsoft Store for Business at https://www.microsoft.com/business-store.

2. Sign in to Microsoft Store for Business as  **Sync@_YourInitialsMMDDYY_outlook.onmicrosoft.com** and use the password **Pa55w.rd**.
>  **Note:** If you followed the suggestion in Module 1, "Extending the Configuration Manager infrastructure to support Internet-based and mobile devices," you created a Microsoft account in the _YourInitials-MMDDYY_@outlook.com format. For example, if your name is Don Funk and you created a Microsoft account on September 18, 2017, your account should be DF-091817@outlook.com. In this case, you should sign in as  **Sync@DF091817outlook.onmicrosoft.com**.
3. Accept the  **Microsoft Store for Business and Education Services Agreement**.

4. On the  **Microsoft Store for Business** page, click **Manage** and then verify that the **Sway**,  **OneNote**,  **PowerPoint Mobile**,  **Excel Mobile** and **Word Mobile** apps show a status of Adding to your private store.
>  **Note:** When you sign up for Microsoft Store for Business, the portal automatically adds Sway, OneNote, PowerPoint Mobile, Excel Mobile, and Word Mobile to your private store; it might take up to 24 hours for the apps to appear in the private store. These apps are automatically available for you to deploy to users.
5. Review how you can add credit card or debit card information to Microsoft Store for Business and then click  **Cancel**.
>  **Note:** You add credit card information to Microsoft Store for Business so that in the future you don't need to provide this information each time you want to purchase an app.
6. Click  **Settings** and then select the **Show offline apps** option.

7. On the menu bar, verify that the private store is named  **Private Store**.

8. Rename the private store to  **Adatum Store**, and then verify that it is listed on the toolbar.

9. Locate where you can configure Device Guard signer policies.

>  **Note:** When configured, these policies allows apps from Microsoft Store for Business to run on a device that is protected by Device Guard.

>  **Result**: After finishing this exercise, you should have successfully signed up for Microsoft Store for Business and performed initial configuration of the store.


## Exercise 2: Managing Microsoft Store for Business
  
### Scenario
  
 After you signed up for Microsoft Store for Business and customized the private store, you want to delegate permissions for Microsoft Store for Business to your coworkers. You want to test the differences between user roles, obtain several apps, and add them to the private store. As part of the project, you also want to view how company employees can access the Adatum private store from their Windows 10 devices.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Work with roles in Microsoft Store for Business

2. Access Microsoft Store for Business

3. Prepare for the next lab



#### Task 1: Work with roles in Microsoft Store for Business
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, use Internet Explorer to assign  **Ada Russell** the **Admin** role in Microsoft Store for Business.

2. Assign  **Holly Spencer** the **Purchaser** role in Microsoft Store for Business.

3. Verify that the following users have roles in Microsoft Store for Business:

  - Sync:  **Global Admin**

  - Ada Russell:  **Admin**

  - Holly Spencer:  **Purchaser**

4. On  **LON-DC1**, use Internet Explorer to go to Microsoft Store for Business at https://www.microsoft.com/business-store.

5. Sign in to Microsoft Store for Business as  **Holly@_YourInitialsMMDDYY_outlook.onmicrosoft.com**, and then use the password  **Pa55w.rd**.
>  **Note:** If you followed the suggestion in Module 1, "Extending the Configuration Manager infrastructure to support Internet-based and mobile devices," you created a Microsoft account in the _YourInitials-MMDDYY_@outlook.com format. For example, if your name is Don Funk and you created a Microsoft account on September 18, 2017, your account should be DF-091817@outlook.com. In this case, you should sign in as  **Holly@DF091817outlook.onmicrosoft.com**.
6. Verify that Holly has only the **Quotes**, **Products &amp; services**, **Billing, Order history**, **Partners**, and  **Support** options available in Microsoft Store for Business.
>  **Note:** Holly has the Purchaser role assigned. Purchaser does not have access to **Permissions** and **Store settings**.

7. On  **LON-CFG**, verify that user Sync has the **Quotes**, **Products &amp; services**,  **My organization**,  **Devices**,  **Billing, Order history**, **Partners**, **Permissions**,  **Settings**, and  **Support** options available in Microsoft Store for Business.
>  **Note:** The Sync user is a global administrator and has full permissions in Microsoft Store for Business.
9. Locate the Translator app in Microsoft Store for Business. Verify that you can see the  **License type** options to the left of the **Install** button.

10. Click the ellipsis ( **...**), and then verify that you have the  **Manage** and **Add to private store** options available.

11. Add the Translator app to the private store.

12. Get the GoToMeeting app, but do not add it to the private store.

13. Get the Fresh Paint app, but do not add it to the private store.

14. Locate the Microsoft Remote Desktop app in Microsoft Store for Business, select offline licensing, get the app, and then verify that you can download the Microsoft Remote Desktop package for offline use.

15. On  **LON-DC1**, in Internet Explorer, click  **Manage**, and then in the navigation pane, click  **Products &amp; services**.

16. In the details pane, verify that the Translator app is adding to the private store, and then click  **Translator**.

17. In the Translator details pane, click the  **Assign to people** link. In the **Assign to people** dialog box, in the **Enter a name or email address** text box, type **evan**, click  **Evan Norman**, and then click  **Assign**.

>  **Note:** Evan Norman will get an email with a direct link to the Translator app. He can click the link, authenticate to Microsoft Store for Business, and then install the app. Click **Close**.


#### Task 2: Access Microsoft Store for Business
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, on the task bar attempt to open the Store app.
>  **Note:** The built-in administrator cannot run the Store app.
2. Sign out, and then sign in to  **LON-CL1** as **Adatum\\Maj** with the password **Pa55w.rd**. 

3. If necessary, set the startup type for the  **Windows Update** service to **Manual**. Use  **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd** when needed.

4. Use the Store app to view the details of one of the available apps. Verify that you can now view app details.

5. Verify that you can see the following five categories on the toolbar of the Store app:  **Home**,  **Apps**,  **Games**,  **Music**, and  **Movies &amp; TV**.

6. Sign in to the Store app by using the  **Maj@_YourInitialsMMDDYY_outlook.onmicrosoft.com** work or school account with the password **Pa55w.rd**, and then add this account to the Windows operating system.
>  **Note:** If you followed the suggestion in Module 1, "Extending the Configuration Manager infrastructure to support Internet-based and mobile devices," you created a Microsoft account in the _YourInitials-MMDDYY_@outlook.com format. For example, if your name is Don Funk and you created a Microsoft account on September 18, 2017, your account should be DF-091817@outlook.com. In this case, you should sign in as  **Maj@DF091817outlook.onmicrosoft.com**.
7. In the Store app, select  **My Library**.
>  **Note:** Although apps added to the private store when you signed up for Microsoft Store for Business, it takes up to 24 hours for apps to appear in the private store. For this reason, your library (private store) is currently empty. After the apps appear, you will get an additional tab in the Store app. This additional tab will be named **Adatum Store**, which you configured in the previous exercise.
8. Verify that the work or school account that you used in the Store app is connected to your Microsoft account.
>  **Note:** An Azure AD account also is referenced as a work or school account.
9. Open  **Local Group Policy Editor**, and then use  **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd** when necessary.

10. View the  **Computer Configuration\\Administrative Templates\\Windows Components\\Store\\Only display the private store within the Windows Store app** setting, and then read the Help for the setting. Do not configure this setting.
>  **Note:** You didn't configure and test this setting because the private store has not yet updated with the added apps.


#### Task 3: Prepare for the next lab
  
- Keep the VMs running for the next lab.


>  **Result**: After finishing this exercise, you should have successfully assigned users to Microsoft Store for Business roles, obtained several apps, added them to the private store, and tested how to connect to the store from Windows 10 devices.



## 
  
**Question** 
Can you sign up for Microsoft Store for Business by using the Store app?

**Question** 
You used the Sync account to sign up for Microsoft Store for Business. Which permissions does this account have in Azure AD?

**Question** 
Do you need to add a user to the Basic purchaser role to be able to browse and install apps from Microsoft Store for Business?

**Question** 
Why were you unable to view any apps in the private store even though you had several apps there?



# Lab B: Deploying Microsoft Store for Business apps by using Configuration Manager
  
### Scenario
  
 You already have established the Adatum private store, purchased several apps and added them to the private store, and delegated coworker permissions in Microsoft Store for Business.

In this phase, you want to connect Configuration Manager with Microsoft Store for Business and use Configuration Manager to deploy apps that were purchased in Microsoft Store for Business. You have to register Configuration Manager in Azure AD, add it as an MDM management tool in Microsoft Store for Business, and add the Microsoft Store for Business account in Configuration Manager. After Configuration Manager synchronizes with Microsoft Store for Business, you plan to test the requirements for deploying apps from Microsoft Store for Business on a Windows 10 device. You then plan to test the deployment of online and offline licensed apps in your demonstration environment and to manage licenses for Microsoft Store for Business apps.


### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Set up syncing with Microsoft Store for Business.

- Deploy and manage Microsoft Store for Business apps.

>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Intune and other cloud services referenced in the course. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup
  
 Estimated time: 30 minutes

Virtual machines:  **20703-2A-LON-DC1-A**,  **20703-2A-LON-CFG-A**,  **20703-2A-LON-CL1-A**,  **20703-2A-LON-CL3-A**, and  **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**

 User name:  **Adatum\\Administrator**

 Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

 For this lab, the  **20703-2A-LON-DC1-A**,  **20703-2A-LON-CFG-A**,  **20703-2A-LON-CL1-A**, and  **MT17B-WS2016-NAT** VMs should already be running from the previous lab.

 You only need to start the  **20703-2A-LON-CL3-A** VM. To do this, perform the following steps:

1. On the host computer, start Hyper-V Manager.

2. In Hyper-V Manager, click  **20703-2A-LON-CL3-A**, and then in the Actions pane, click  **Start**.

3. In the Actions pane, click  **Connect**. Wait until the VM starts. You don't need to sign in to the VM.



## Exercise 1: Setting up syncing with Microsoft Store for Business
  
### Scenario
  
 Before you can use Configuration Manager to deploy purchased apps from Microsoft Store for Business, you must synchronize information on licensed apps from Microsoft Store for Business to Configuration Manager. For synchronization to occur, you must perform configuration steps in Azure AD, in Microsoft Store for Business, and in Configuration Manager. In this exercise, you will perform all of these configurations and verify that the information on licensed apps displays in the  **Configuration Manager** console.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Add a web app and a management tool

2. Add the Microsoft Store for Business account



#### Task 1: Add a web app and a management tool
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, use Internet Explorer in InPrivate Browsing mode, go to the Azure Portal at  **https://portal.azure.com**, and then sign in by using the Microsoft account credentials that you created in Lab A of module 1.
>  **Note:** If you followed the suggestion in Module 1, "Extending the Configuration Manager infrastructure to support Internet-based and mobile devices," you created a Microsoft account in the _YourInitials-MMDDYY_@outlook.com format. For example, if your name is Don Funk and you created a Microsoft account on September 18, 2017, your account should be DF-091817@outlook.com.
2. In Azure Portal, add a new app registration in Azure AD by using the following information:

  - Name:  **Configuration Manager**

  - Application type:  **Web app / API**

  - Sign-on URL: http://store.adatum.com

>  **Note:** You can type any URL as the sign-in URL. This URL doesn't need to resolve to any external address.
3. Create a key for the Configuration Manager web app with the following data, and then save it:

  - Key description:  **Store key**

  - Duration:  **In 1 year**

4. Copy the string in the  **VALUE** text box to Notepad.

5. Use the  **Internet Explorer** window in which Microsoft Store for Business is opened to add Configuration Manager as a management tool for Microsoft Store for Business, and then activate synchronization with the Configuration Manager management tool.



#### Task 2: Add the Microsoft Store for Business account
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, create a folder named  **StoreApp** on drive E, and then share it with **Read** permissions for **Authenticated Users**. 

2. In the  **Configuration Manager** console, on the LON-CFG.Adatum.com site system, modify the Service connection point and change it to **Online, persistent connection**.

3. Restart the  **SMS_EXECUTIVE** service.

4. In the  **Configuration Manager** console, add a Microsoft Store for Business account by using the following information:

  - Tenant:  ** _YourInitialsMMDDYY_outlook.onmicrosoft.com**
>  **Note:** If you followed the suggestion in Module 1, "Extending the Configuration Manager infrastructure to support Internet-based and mobile devices," you created a Microsoft account in the _YourInitials-MMDDYY_@outlook.com format. For example, if your name is Don Funk and you created a Microsoft account on September 18, 2017, your account should be DF-091817@outlook.com. In this case, you should type  **DF091817outlook.onmicrosoft.com** as the tenant.
  - Client ID: copy and paste the value of  **Application ID** from the **Configuration Manager** blade in Internet Explorer in which the Azure Portal is opened

  - Client secret key: copy and paste the value from Notepad

  - Location to store application content downloaded from the Windows Store for Business:  **\\\\LON-CFG\\StoreApps**

5. Verify that the entry for the Microsoft Store for Business account is added to  **Configuration Manager** console. Select the entry and then click **Sync from Windows Store for Business**.

6. Verify that the  **E:\\StoreApps\\wsfb** folder includes subfolders for your Microsoft Store for Business apps.
>  **Note:** Nine subfolders should be in the **wsfb** folder. You might need to wait a while for subfolders to be created.
7. Use the  **Configuration Manager** console to verify that license information for Store apps includes entries for the apps in Microsoft Store for Business that you obtained.

>  **Note:** You can see licenses that were purchased in Microsoft Store for Business, how they are licensed, the total number of licenses, and the available licenses for each app.

>  **Result**: After finishing this exercise, you should have successfully established syncing between Microsoft Store for Business and Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager.


## Exercise 2: Deploying and managing Microsoft Store for Business apps
  
### Scenario
  
 After you synchronize Configuration Manager with Microsoft Store for Business, you want to use Configuration Manager to deploy purchased apps. You will create applications for licensed apps, deploy the created applications, and test how they installed on a Windows 10 client device. You also want to view the users who have licenses to use licensed apps and how you can reclaim the licenses.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create applications from licensing information and deploying applications

2. Install deployed applications on Windows 10 devices

3. Manage licenses for Microsoft Store for Business apps

4. Prepare for the next module



#### Task 1: Create applications from licensing information and deploying applications
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, use the  **Configuration Manager** console to verify that Translator has the online license type, and then create the application from the Translator license information.

2. Verify that Microsoft Remote Desktop has the offline license type, and then create an application from the Microsoft Remote Desktop license information.

3. Create an application from Fresh Paint license information.

4. Create an application from GoToMeeting license information.

5. Deploy the Translator app to the All Users collection, and then verify that the deployment is not using any distribution point.
>  **Note:** Online licensed apps are installed from Microsoft Store for Business, and their installation files aren't available on the distribution points.
6. Deploy the Microsoft Remote Desktop app to the All Users collection, and then use  **LON-CFG.ADATUM.COM** as a distribution point.
>  **Note:** Offline licensed apps are installed from downloaded installation files, and you must select the distribution point or points on which files will be available.
7. Deploy the GoToMeeting app to the All Users collection.

8. Deploy the Fresh Paint app to the All Windows 10 Workstations collection, and then configure the deployment to be required.



#### Task 2: Install deployed applications on Windows 10 devices
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, sign in as  **Adatum\\Adam** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2. Run Winver.exe to verify that  **LON-CL3** is running Windows 10 version 1703.

3. Run Software Center, and then verify that the Microsoft Remote Desktop, Translator, Fresh Paint, and GoToMeeting apps are available on the  **Applications** tab.
>  **Note:** Applications that deployed to users and to devices are listed and available. If Fresh Paint is not displayed in Software center, wait for a few minutes, sign out, and then sign in to **LON-CL3** as Adatum\\Adam.
4. Try to install the Translator app.
>  **Note:** Installation failed because the user can't authenticate to Microsoft Store for Business with an Azure AD account. This authentication is required when you want to install an online licensed app.
5. In Software Center, verify that the Translator app failed to install and that the Fresh Paint app will retry to install.
>  **Note:** The Fresh Paint app was assigned to the All Windows 10 Workstations collection as required. The application tried to install, but because Adam doesn't have an Azure AD account, installation wasn't successful and it will be retried.
6. Use the Settings app to connect the Adam@ _YourInitialsMMDDYY_outlook.onmicrosoft.com work or school account to your Microsoft account, and then use  **Pa55w.rd** as this account's password.
>  **Note:** If you followed the suggestion in Module 1, "Extending the Configuration Manager infrastructure to support Internet-based and mobile devices," you created a Microsoft account in the _YourInitials-MMDDYY_@outlook.com format. For example, if your name is Don Funk and you created a Microsoft account on September 18, 2017, your account should be DF-091817@outlook.com. In this case, you should connect your Microsoft account to the Adam@DF091817outlook.onmicrosoft.com work or school account.
7. Use Software Center to retry the Translator app installation.
>  **Note:** Installation is now successful because Adam now has an Azure AD account to authenticate to Microsoft Store for Business.
8. Verify that the Translator app installed. Retry the installation of the Fresh Paint application, and then wait until the app installs.

9. On  **LON-CL1**, where you are signed in as  **Adatum\\Maj**, use Winver.exe to verify that  **LON-CL1** is running Windows 10 version 1607.
>  **Note:** You connected user Maj with his work or school account (Azure AD account) in the previous lab.
10. Use Software Center to start the Translator app installation.

11. Verify that the Store app opens on the  **Translator** page. User Maj is signed in to the Store app, and he can manually install the app.

>  **Note:** In Windows 10 prior to Creators Update, you must manually install apps from Microsoft Store for Business even if you deploy them by using Configuration Manager. Full support for deploying apps from Microsoft Store for Business by using Configuration Manager is implemented in Creators Update and newer versions of Windows 10 operating systems.


#### Task 3: Manage licenses for Microsoft Store for Business apps
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, use Internet Explorer to verify that you are signed in to Microsoft Store for Business as user Sync.

2. In Internet Explorer, verify that no user is assigned to the GoToMeeting app.

3. On  **LON-CL3**, use Software Center to install the GoToMeeting app.

4. On  **LON-CFG**, in Internet Explorer, refresh the page, and then verify that  **Adam Hobbs** is listed in the **Users** section.
>  **Note:** You didn't assign the license to Adam Hobbs manually. A license assigned to him automatically when Adam installed the app.
5. On  **LON-CL3**, verify that the GoToMeeting app runs.

6. On  **LON-CFG**, use Internet Explorer to reclaim a license from Adam Hobbs for the GoToMeeting app, and then verify that Adam Hobbs is no longer listed in the  **Users** section.

>  **Note:** You reclaimed the license for the GoToMeeting app from Adam Hobbs. Because he no longer has the license, he is not allowed to run the app if the app has implemented license checking.


#### Task 4: Prepare for the next module
  
- At the end of the lab, shut down the VMs. However, don't revert the VMs, because you will need the current state for later modules.


>  **Result**: After finishing this exercise, you should have successfully deployed apps from Microsoft Store for Business by using Configuration Manager. You should also have managed licenses for apps in Microsoft Store for Business.



## 
  
**Question** 
Why did you copy the private key value from Azure Portal to Notepad?

**Question** 
In which tool did you activate synchronization with Configuration Manager?

**Question** 
Do installation files for online licensed Microsoft Store for Business apps download to Configuration Manager when you synchronize Configuration Manager with Microsoft Store for Business?

**Question** 
Can you deploy Microsoft Store for Business apps to multiple users and groups when you are using Configuration Manager?



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  