# Lab Answer Key:  Module 6: On-premises mobile device management using Configuration Manager
# Lab: Managing mobile devices with an On-premises infrastructure
  
## Exercise 1: Configuring PKI for On-premises MDM
  
#### Task 1: Create file share for CRL
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, on the taskbar, click  **File Explorer**.

2. In File Explorer, in the navigation pane, click and then right-click  **Local Disk (C:)**. Select  **New**, click  **Folder**, type  **CRLshare** and then press Enter.

3. In File Explorer, in the details pane, right-click  **CRLshare**, and then select  **Properties**.

4. In the  **CRLshare Properties** window, select the **Sharing** tab, and then click **Advanced Sharing**.

5. In the  **Advanced Sharing** dialog box, click the **Share this folder** check box. In the **Share name** text box, type a dollar sign ($) at the end of **CRLshare**, so that the text box has a value **CRLshare$**, and then click the  **Permissions** button.

6. In the  **Permissions for CRLshare$** dialog box, click **Add**, click  **Object Types**, select the  **Computers** check box and then click **OK**.

7. In the  **Select Users, Computers, Service Accounts, or Groups** dialog box, in the **Enter the object names to select** text box, type **LON-DC1**, and then click  **OK**.

8. In the  **Permissions for CRLshare$** dialog box, in the **Permissions for LON-DC1** section, in the **Allow** column, select the **Full Control** check box, and then click **OK** twice.

9. In the  **CRLshare Properties** window, select the **Security** tab. Click **Edit**, click  **Add**, click  **Object Types**, select  **Computers** check box, and then click **OK**.

10. In the  **Select Users, Computers, Service Accounts, or Groups** dialog box, in the **Enter the object names to select** text box, type **LON-DC1**, and then click  **OK**.

11. In the  **Permissions for CRLshare** dialog box, in the **Permissions for LON-DC1** section, in the **Allow** column, select the **Full control** check box, and then click **OK** and then click **Close**.



#### Task 2: Configure a web server to provide access to CRL
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, click  **Start**, and then click  **Server Manager**.

2. In Server Manager, click  **Tools**, and then click  **Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager**.

3. In  **Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager** console, in the navigation pane, expand **LON-DC1 (ADATUM\\Administrator)**, expand  **Sites**, right-click  **Default Web Site**, and then click  **Add Virtual Directory**.

4. In the  **Add Virtual Directory** dialog, in the **Alias** text box, type **CRL**. In the  **Physical path** text box, type **C:\\CRLshare**, and then click  **OK**.

5. In Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager console, in the  **CRL Home** pane, double-click **Directory Browsing**. In the  **Actions** pane, click **Enable** and then in the navigation pane, click the **CRL** folder.

6. In the  **CRL Home** pane, in the **Management** section, double-click **Configuration Editor**.

7. In the  **Configuration Editor** pane, in the **Section** drop-down list, expand **system.webServer**, expand  **security**, and then select  **requestFiltering**.

8. In the  **Configuration Editor** pane, double-click **allowDoubleEscaping** to change its value from **False** to **True**, and then in the  **Actions** pane, click **Apply**.

9. Close Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager.

10. In Server Manager, click  **Tools**, and then click  **DNS**.

11. In the DNS Manager console, in the navigation pane, expand  **LON-DC1**, expand  **Forward Lookup Zones**, select and then right-click  **Adatum.com**, and then select  **New Alias (CNAME)**.

12. In the  **New Resource Record** dialog, in the **Alias name (users parent domain if left blank)** text box, type **CRL**. In the  **Fully qualified domain name (FQDN) for target host** text box, type **LON-DC1.Adatum.com**, and then click  **OK**. 

13. In the navigation pane, right-click  **Adatum.com**, and then select  **New Alias (CNAME)**.

14. In the  **New Resource Record** dialog, in the **Alias name (users parent domain if left blank)** text box, type **EnterpriseEnrollment**. In the  **Fully qualified domain name (FQDN) for target host** text box, type **LON-CFG.Adatum.com**, and then click  **OK**. 

15. Close the DNS Manager console.



#### Task 3: Configure certification authority for CRL publishing and publish CRL
  
1.  **On LON-DC1**, in Server Manager, click  **Tools**, and then click  **Certification Authority**.

2. In the  **Certification Authority** console, expand and right-click **AdatumCA**, and then click  **Properties**.

3. In the  **AdatumCA Properties** window, click the **Extensions** tab, verify that in the **Select extension** drop-down list the **CRL Distribution Point (CDP)** option is selected, and then click **Add**. 

4. In the  **Add Location** dialog, in **Location** text box, type **http://crl.Adatum.com/CRL/**. Verify that in the  **Variable** drop-down list **&lt;CaName&gt;** option is selected, and then click **Insert**.

5. In the  **Variable** drop-down list, select the **&lt;CRLNameSuffix&gt;** option, and then click **Insert**.

6. In the  **Variable** drop-down list, select the **&lt;DeltaCRLAllowed&gt;** option, and then click **Insert**.
>  **Note:** The **Location** text box should have the following value: **http://crl.Adatum.com/CRL/&lt;CaName&gt;&lt;CRLNameSuffix&gt;&lt;DeltaCRLAllowed&gt;**
7. In the  **Location** text box, type **.crl** at the end of the **Location** string so that it appears as **http://crl.Adatum.com/CRL/&lt;CaName&gt;&lt;CRLNameSuffix&gt;&lt;DeltaCRLAllowed&gt;.crl**, and then click  **OK**.

8. In the  **AdatumCA Properties** window, on the **Extension** tab, select the following three check boxes, and then click **Add**:

  -  **Include in CRLs. Clients use this to find Delta CRL locations**

  -  **Include in the CDP extension of issued certificates**

  -  **Include in the IDP extension of issued CRLs**

9. In the  **Add Location** dialog, in the **Location** text box, type **\\\\LON-DC1.Adatum.com\\CRLshare$\\**. Verify that in the  **Variable** drop-down list the **&lt;CaName&gt;** option is selected, and then click **Insert**.

10. In the  **Variable** drop-down list, select the **&lt;CRLNameSuffix&gt;** option, and then click **Insert**.

11. In the  **Variable** drop-down list, select the **&lt;DeltaCRLAllowed&gt;** option, and then click **Insert**. 
>  **Note:** The **Location** text box should have the following value: **\\\\LON-DC1.Adatum.com\\CRLShare$\\&lt;CaName&gt;&lt;CRLNameSuffix&gt;&lt;DeltaCRLAllowed&gt;**.
12. In the  **Location** text box, type **.crl** at the end of the Location string so that it appears as **\\\\LON-DC1.Adatum.com\\CRLShare$\\&lt;CaName&gt;&lt;CRLNameSuffix&gt;&lt;DeltaCRLAllowed&gt;.crl**, and then click  **OK**.

13. In the  **AdatumCA Properties** window, on the **Extension** tab, select the following two check boxes:

  -  **Publish CRLs to this location**

  -  **Publish Delta CRLs to this Location**

14. In the  **AdatumCA Properties** window, select the **Exit Module** tab, click **Properties...**, select  **Allow certificates to be published to the file system** check box, click **OK**, and in the  **Windows default** dialog box, click **OK**.

15. In the  **AdatumCA Properties** window, click **OK**, in the  **Certificate Authority** dialog click **Yes**, and wait while the certification authority is restarted. 

16. In the  **Certification Authority** console, in the navigation pane, right-click **Revoked Certificates**, select  **All Tasks**, and then click  **Publish**.

17. In the  **Publish CRL** dialog box, verify that **New CRL** is selected, and then click **OK**. Leave the Certification Authority console open.

18. On the taskbar, click  **File Explorer**, navigate to the  **C:\\CRLshare** folder and verify that it contains the **AdatumCA.crl** file (the full CRL) and the **AdatumCA+.crl** file (the Delta CRL). Close **File Explorer**.

#### Task 4: Create certificate templates
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, in the  **Certification Authority** console, in the navigation pane, right-click **Certificate Templates**, and then click  **Manage**. 

2. In the  **Certificate Templates Console**, right-click the  **Web Server** template, and then click **Duplicate Template**.

3. In the  **Properties of New Template** window, on the **General** tab, in the **Template display name** text box, type **Configuration Manager Web Server**, and then select the  **Publish Certificate in Active Directory** check box.

4. On the  **Subject Name** tab, select **Build from this Active Directory information** radio button, and in **Subject name format** drop-down list, select the **Common name** option.

5. On the  **Security** tab, click **Add**.

6. In the  **Select, Users, Computer Service Accounts, or Groups** dialog box, click **Object Types**, click the  **Computers** check box, and then click **OK**.

7. In the  **Enter the object names to select** text box, type **LON-CFG**, and then click  **OK**.

8. On the  **Security** tab, in the **Allow** column, select **Enroll** check box, and then click **OK**.

9. In the  **Certificate Templates Console**, right-click the  **Workstation Authentication** template, and then click **Duplicate Template**.

10. In  **Properties of New Template** window, on the **General** tab, in the **Template display name** text box, type **Configuration Manager DP**, and then select the  **Publish Certificate in Active Directory** check box.

11. On the  **Security** tab, click **Add**.

12. In the  **Select, Users, Computer Service Accounts, or Groups** dialog box, click **Object Types**, select the  **Computers** check box, and then click **OK**.

13. In the  **Enter the object names to select** text box, type **LON-CFG**, and then click  **OK**.

14. On the  **Security** tab, in the **Allow** column, select **Enroll** check box, and then click **OK**.

15. Close the  **Certificate Templates Console**.

16. In the  **Certification Authority** console, in the navigation pane, right-click the **Certificate Templates** node, select **New**, and then click  **Certificate Template to Issue**.

17. In the  **Enable Certificate Templates** dialog box, select **Configuration Manager DP**, press and hold the  **CTRL** key on the keyboard, click **Configuration Manager Web Server** (both templates should be selected), and then click **OK**.


>  **Result**: After finishing this exercise, you will have your PKI and DNS configured for On-premises MDM.


## Exercise 2: Preparing Configuration Manager for On-premises MDM
  
#### Task 1: Request certificates for Configuration Manager
  
1. ON  **LON-CFG**, on the taskbar, click  **Start**, type  **certlm.msc**, and then press Enter. The Certificates console opens.

2. In the  **Certificates** console, in the navigation pane, expand **Certificates (Local Computer)**, expand  **Personal**, select and then right-click  **Certificates**, select  **All Tasks**, and then click  **Request New Certificate**.

3. In the  **Certificate Enrollment** window, on the **Before You Begin** page, click **Next**.

4. On the  **Select Certificate Enrollment Policy** page, click **Next**.

5. On the  **Request Certificates** page, select the **Configuration Manager DP** and **Configuration Manager Web Server** check boxes, and then click **Enroll**.

6. On the  **Certificate Installation Results** page, click **Finish**, and then close the  **Certificates** console.

7. On  **LON-CFG**, on the taskbar, click  **Start** and then click **Server Manager**.

8. In Server Manager, click  **Tools**, and then click  **Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager**.

9. In the  **Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager** console, in the navigation pane, expand **LON-CFG (ADATUM\\Administrator)**, expand  **Sites**, and click  **Default Web Site**.

10. In the  **Actions** pane, click **Bindings**.

11. In the  **Site Bindings** dialog box, select **https**, and then click  **Edit**.

12. In the  **Edit Site Binding** dialog box, in the **SSL certificate** drop-down list box, select **LON-CFG.Adatum.com**, and then click  **OK**.

13. In the  **Site Bindings** dialog box, click **Close**, and then close the  **Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager** console.

#### Task 2: Activate the EMS free trial
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, open  **Internet Explorer** and browse to **https://portal.azure.com**. 

2. Sign in with your Microsoft account as configured in Module 1.

3. In the navigation pane, click  **Azure Active Directory**.

4. On the directory page, under  **MANAGE**, click  **Licenses**.

5. On the  **Licenses** page, click **All products**. Notice the products that have already been purchased.

6. In the product list, click  **Try/Buy**.

7. On the  **Activate** page, on the **ENTERPRISE MOBILITY + SECURITY E5** tile, click **Free trial**.

8. In the  **Activate Enterprise Mobility + Security E5 trial** page, click **Activate**.

9. In the navigation pane, click **All services**.

10. In the All services list, type  **Intune**. The list should filter to show you only Intune related nodes. 

11. Next to  **Intune**, click the  **Star** icon to pin Intune to the navigation pane.

12. In the navigation pane, click  **Intune** to browse to the **Intune** page. Feel free to browse around the **Intune** features, but do not make any changes.You may encounter some errors as the service is added to the tenant.

#### Task 3: Assign an EMS license to Adam Hobbs
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, in the navigation pane, click  **Azure Active Directory**.

2. On the directory page, under  **MANAGE**, click  **Users**.

3. On the  **Users** page, click **All users**.

4. In the  **All users** list, type Adam, and when Adam Hobbs appears in the filter, double-click the account.

5. On the account profile page, click  **Licenses**.

6. Click  **Assign**.

7. Under  **Assign license**, click  **Products**.

8. On the  **Products** pane, select **Enterprise Mobility + Security E5**, and then click  **Select**.

9. Click  **Assign**.

10. Close  **Internet Explorer**.

#### Task 4: Create an MDM collection and verify the service connection point configuration
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, on the task bar, click  **Configuration Manager Console**.

2. In the  **Configuration Manager** console, click the **Assets and Compliance** workspace.

3. In the navigation pane, click  **Users**. Verify that users have been discovered from the Adatum domain.

4. Right-click  **ADATUM\\Abbi (Abbi Skinner)**, point to  **Add Selected Items**, and then click  **Add Selected Items to a New User Collection**. The  **Create User Collection Wizard** start.

5. In the  **Create User Collection Wizard**, on the  **General** page, next to **Name**, type  **Adatum MDM Users**. 

6. Next to  **Limiting collection**, click  **Browse**. The  **Select Collection** dialog box opens.

7. In the  **Select Collection** dialog box, click **All Users**, and then click  **OK**.

8. On the  **General** page, click **Next**.

9. On the  **Membership Rules** page, click **Next**.

10. On the  **Summary** page, click **Next**.

11. On the  **Completion** page, click **Close**.

12. In the user list, right-click  **ADATUM\\Adam (Adam Hobbs)**, point to  **Add Selected Items**, and then click  **Add Selected Items to Existing User Collection**.

13. In the  **Select Collection** dialog box, select **Adatum MDM Users** and then click **OK**.

14. Repeat steps 12 and 13 to add  **Allan Yoo** and **Ana Cantrell** to the **Adatum MDM Users** list.

15. In the navigation pane, click  **User Collections**.

16. In the results pane, double-click  **Adatum MDM Users**. Verify the members of the collection.

17. In the  **Configuration Manager** console, click the **Administration** workspace.

18. In the navigation pane, expand  **Site Configuration** and then click **Servers and Site System Roles**.

19. In the results pane, select  **\\\\LON-CFG.Adatum.com**.

20. In the Preview pane, scroll down and select  **Service connection point**. This shows that the role has already been installed on  **LON-CFG** during the initial install of the site server.

21. In the ribbon, click  **Properties**. The  **Service connection point Properties** box opens. Verify that it is currently configure as **Online, persistent connection**. If the Service connection point is configured as Offline, change the selection as indicated to Online.

22. Click  **OK** to close the **Service connection point Properties** box.

#### Task 5: Add Microsoft Intune subscription to Configuration Manager
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, on the taskbar, click the  **Configuration Manager Console** icon.

2. In the  **System Center Configuration Manager** console, select the **Administration** workspace. In the navigation pane, expand the **Cloud Services** folder, and then click **Microsoft Intune Subscriptions**.

3. On the ribbon, click  **Add Microsoft Intune Subscription**. The  **Create Microsoft Intune Subscription Wizard** opens.

4. In the  **Create Microsoft Intune Subscription Wizard**, on the  **Introduction** page, click **Next**.

5. On the  **Subscription** page, click **Sign In**.

6. In the  **Subscription** dialog box, enter credentials with the user name **Adam@&lt;YourInitialsMMDDYY&gt;outlook.onmicrosoft.com**, and the password  **Pa55w.rd**, and then click  **Sign in**.
>  **Note:** If you follow the suggestion in the first module of this course, you would create the Microsoft account in the format &lt; **YourInitials&gt;-MMDDYY@outlook.com**. For example, if your name is Don Funk and you created Microsoft account on September 18, 2017, your account should be DF-091817@outlook.com. In that case, you should sign in as  **Adam@DF091817outlook.onmicrosoft.com**.
7. On the  **Subscription** page, click **Next**.

8. On the  **General** page, click **Browse**, click the  **Adatum MDM Users** collection, and then click **OK**. Then, on the  **General** page, review the available settings, enter the following information, and then click **Next**:

  - Company Name:  **Adatum**

  - Configuration Manager site code:  **S01**

9. On the  **Company Contact Information** page, review the settings that can be configured, and then click **Next**.

10. On the  **Company Logo** page, review the settings that can be configured, and then click **Next**.

11. On the  **Device Enrollment Manager** page, click **Next** twice, and then click **Close**.

12. On the details pane, right-click  **Microsoft Intune Subscription**, select  **Configure Platforms**, and then click  **Windows**.

13. In the  **Microsoft Intune Subscription Properties** window, select the **Enable Windows enrollment** check box, and then click **OK**.

#### Task 6: Configure site system roles
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, in the  **Configuration Manager** console, in the **Administration** workspace, in the navigation pane, expand the **Site Configuration** node, and click the **Servers and Site System Roles** node.

2. In the top details pane, verify that  **\\\\LON-CFG.Adatum.com** is selected. In the **Site System Roles** details pane, double-click **Distribution point**.

3. On the  **Distribution point Properties** window, on the **General** tab, select the **HTTPS** radio button. Under the **Requires computers to have a valid PKI client certificate** text, select the **Allow intranet and Internet connections** option.

4. Select the  **Allow mobile devices to connect to this distribution point** check box, and then click **OK**.

5. In the  **Site System Roles** details pane, double-click **Management point**.

6. In the  **Management point Properties**, on the  **General** tab, select the **HTTPS** radio button. Under the **This option requires computers to have a valid PKI certificate for client authentication**, select the  **Allow intranet and Internet connections** option.

7. Select the  **Allow mobile devices and Mac computers to use this management point** check box, and then click **OK**.

8. In the top details pane, right-click  **\\\\LON-CFG.Adatum.com**, and then click  **Add Site System Roles**.

9. On the  **Add Site System Roles Wizard**, on the  **General** page, click **Next**.

10. On the  **Proxy** page, click **Next**.

11. On the  **System Role Selection** page, select the **Enrollment point** and **Enrollment proxy point** check boxes, click **Next** four times, and then click **Close**.

12. In the  **Configuration Manager** console, in the navigation pane, click the **Sites** node.

13. In the details pane, right-click  **S01 - Adatum Site**, and then click  **Properties**.

14. In the  **Adatum Site Properties** window, select the **Client Computer Communication** tab.

15. In the  **Trusted Root Certification Authorities** section, click the **Set** button.

16. In the  **Set Root CA Certificates** dialog box, select the new button (it looks like a star).

17. In the  **Open** window, in the **File name** text box, type **\\\\LON-DC1**, click  **Open** and then double-click **CertEnroll**. In **Certificate Files (*.cer)** drop-down list select **All Files (*.*)**, click **LON-DC1.Adatum.com_Adatum.CA.crt** file, click **Open**, and then click  **OK** twice.



#### Task 7: Configure an enrollment profile for the enrollment of modern devices
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, in the  **Configuration Manager** console, in the navigation pane, click the **Client Settings** node, and then in the details pane, double-click **Default Client Settings**.

2. In the  **Default Settings** window, in the navigation pane, click the **Enrollment** node.

3. In the  **Default Settings** window, in the **Default Settings** details pane, in the **User Settings** section, in the **Allow users to enroll modern devices** drop-down list, select the **Yes** option, and then click the **Set Profile** button.

4. In the  **Enrollment Profile** window, click **Create**.

5. In the  **Create Enrollment Profile** window, in the **Name** text box, type **Adatum Enrollment Profile**. Verify that the  **Management site code** is set to **S01**, and then click  **OK** three times.



#### Task 8: Create an enrollment package
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, in the  **Configuration Manager** console, select the **Assets and Compliance** workspace.

2. In the navigation pane, expand the  **Compliance Settings** node, expand the **Company Resource Access** node, select and right-click **Certificate Profiles**, and then click  **Create Certificate Profile.**

3. In  **Create Certificate Profile Wizard**, on the  **General** page, in the **Name** text box, type **Adatum Root CA**. Verify that the  **Trusted CA certificate** radio button is selected, and then click **Next**.

4. On the  **Trusted CA Certificate** page click **Import**. In the  **Open** window, verify that it opens in **\\\\LON-DC1\\CertEnroll** folder, select the **LON-DC1.Adatum.com_AdatumCA.crt** file, click **Open**, and then click  **Next**.

5. On the  **Supported Platforms** page, select the **Windows 10** check box, click **Next** twice, and then click **Close**.

6. In the  **Configuration Manager** console, in the navigation pane, expand the **All Corporate-owned Devices** node, expand the **Windows** node, select and right-click **Enrollment Profile**, and then click  **Create Enrollment Profile**.

7. In the  **Create Enrollment Profile Wizard**, on the  **General** page, in the **Name** text box, type **Adatum Enrollment Profile**. Verify that  **Management Authority** is set to **On-Premises**, and then click  **Next**.

8. On the  **Site assignment** page, in the **Management site code** drop-down list, select **S01**, and then click  **Next**.

9. On the  **Select Enrollment Proxy Point** page, select the **Intranet Only** radio button, select the **HTTPS://LON-CFG.Adatum.com:443/EnrollmentServer/Discovery.svc** check box, and then click **Next**.

10. On the  **Select Trusted Root Certificate** page, select the **Adatum Root CA** check box, click **Next** three times, and then click **Close**.

11. In the  **Configuration Manager** console, in the details pane, right-click **Adatum Enrollment Profile**, and then click  **Export**.

12. In the  **Export Enrollment Package** dialog box, in the **Package File** text box, type **E:\\EnrollDevice**, click  **Export**, wait until package is exported, and then click  **OK**.

13. On  **LON-CFG**, on the taskbar, click  **File Explorer**. In the navigation pane, click  **Allfiles (E:)**, in the details pane, verify that the files  **EnrollDevice.ppkg** and **EnrollDevice.cat** are shown, and then close **File Explorer**. 


>  **Result**: At the completion of this exercise, you will have successfully configured the Configuration Manager site system roles for On-premises MDM.


## Exercise 3: Enrolling Windows 10 devices for On-premises MDM
  
#### Task 1: Perform user enrollment of a Windows 10 device
  
1. On  **LON-BYOD1**, on the taskbar, click  **Start**, type  **certlm.msc**, and then press Enter.

2. In the  **User Account Control** window, click **Yes**. The Certificates console opens.

3. In the  **Certificates** console, in the navigation pane, expand **Certificates (Local Computer)**, expand  **Trusted Root Certification Authorities**, right-click  **Certificates**, select  **All Tasks**, and then click  **Import**.

4. In the  **Certificate Import Wizard**, click  **Next**.

5. On the  **File to Import** page, click **Browse**.

6. In the  **Open** window, in the **File name** text box, type **\\\\LON-DC1**, and then press Enter.

7. In the  **Windows Security** dialog box, type **Adatum\\Administrator** in the **User name** text box, type **Pa55w.rd** in the **Password** text box, and then click **OK**.

8. In the  **Open** window, double-click **CertEnroll** folder, select the **LON-DC1.Adatum.com_AdatumCA.crt** file, click **Open**, and then click  **Next**.

9. On the  **Certificate Store** page, verify that the **Place all certificates in the following store** radio button is selected, and that the **Certificate Store** text box has the **Trusted Root Certification Authorities** value, and then click **Next**.

10. On the  **Completing the Certificate Import Wizard** page, click **Finish**, click  **OK** on the **Certificate Import Wizard** dialog box, and then close the **Certificates** console.

11. On the taskbar, click  **Start**, type  **work or school**, and then click  **Connect to work or school**. The Settings app opens.

12. In the  **Settings** app, in the details pane, click the **+Connect**. 

13. In the  **Set up a work or school account** window, in the **someone@example.com** text box, type **Abbi@_&lt;YourInitialsMMDDYY&gt;_outlook.onmicrosoft.com**, and then click **Next**.

14. In the  **Enter password** window, in the **Password** text box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then click  **Sign in**.
>  **Note:** If you followed the suggestion in the first module, you would have created a Microsoft account in the format &lt; **YourInitials&gt;-MMDDYY@outlook.com**. For example, if your name is Don Funk and you created a Microsoft account on September 18, 2017, your account should be DF-091817@outlook.com. In that case, you should sign in as  **Abbi@DF091817outlook.onmicrosoft.com**.
15. In the  **You're all set!** window, click **Done**.

16. In the  **Settings** app, in the details pane, click the **+Connect**. 

17. In the  **Set up a work or school account** window, in the **someone@example.com** text box, type **Abbi@adatum.com**, and then click  **Next**.

18. In the  **System Center Configuration Manager** window, in the text box below **abbi@adatum.com**, type  **Pa55w.rd**, and then click  **Sign in**.

19. In the  **Remember sign-in info?** window, click **Yes**.

20. In the  **You're all set!** window, click **Finished**.

21. In the  **Settings** app, in the details pane, verify that your Windows account is connected to the **Abbi@_&lt;YourInitialsMMDDYY&gt;_outlook.onmicrosoft.com** work or school account, and that the device is connected to **Adatum MDM**.

22. Click  **Connected to Adatum MDM**, and then click  **Info**.

23. Verify that the last device sync was successful, and then close the  **Settings** app.



#### Task 2: Perform bulk enrollment by using an enrollment package
  
1. On  **LON-BYOD2**, on the taskbar, click  **File Explorer**.

2. In File Explorer, in the address bar, click the down arrow, type  **\\\\LON-CFG\\E$**, and then press Enter.

3. In the  **Windows Security** dialog box, type **Adatum\\Administrator** in the **User name** text box, type **Pa55w.rd** in the **Password** text box, and then click **OK**.

4. In File Explorer, in the details pane, click  **EnrollDevice.cat**, press and hold the Ctrl key, click  **EnrollDevice.ppkg**, release the Ctrl key, right-click the selected files, and then click  **Copy**.

5. In File Explorer, in the navigation pane, expand  **This PC**, select and right-click  **Local Disk (C:)**, select  **New**, click  **Folder**, type  **Enrollment**, and press Enter.

6. In the details pane, double-click the  **Enrollment** folder, right-click and then click **Paste**. Both of the  **EnrollDevice** files are copied to the folder.

7. In File Explorer, in the details pane, double-click the  **EnrollDevice.ppkg** file, click **Yes** in the **User Account Control** dialog box, and click **Yes, add it** in the **Is this package from a source you trust?** dialog box.

8. On the taskbar, click  **Start**, type  **work or school**, and then click  **Connect to work or school**. The Settings app opens.

9. In the  **Settings** app, in the details pane, verify that the device is connected to **Adatum MDM**.

10. Click  **Connected to Adatum MDM**, and then click  **Info**.

11. Verify that the last device sync was successful, and then close the  **Settings** app.



#### Task 3: Verify On-premises MDM-managed devices
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, in the  **Configuration Manager** console, in the **Assets and Compliance** workspace, click the **Devices** node.

2. In the details pane, verify that the devices named  **LON-BYOD1** and **LON-BYOD2** are present. Notice that a different icon is used for these two devices than for other devices.

3. In the details pane, click  **LON-BYOD1**. In the lower details pane, on the  **Summary** tab, verify that the client type is set to **Mobile**.

4. On the  **Summary** tab, click **Primary User** and verify that **ADATUM\\Abbi** is the primary user. Note that you connected Abbi with the **LON-BYOD1** device in the **Settings** app.

5. Right-click  **ADATUM\\Abbi**, click  **Edit Primary Devices**, verify that the affinity type is  **Mobile Device Enrollment Defined**, and then click  **OK**.

6. In the  **Assets and Compliance** workspace, click the **Devices** node, click **LON-BYOD2**, and then click  **Primary User** on the **Summary** tab. Verify that **LON-BYOD2** does not have a primary user defined. Note that you didn't connect any account in the Settings app on **LON-BYOD2**.

7. In the  **Assets and Compliance** workspace, click the **Devices** node. In the details pane, right-click **LON-CFG**, select  **Start**, and then click  **Resource Explorer**.

8. In  **System Center Configuration Manager - Resource Explorer**, in the navigation pane, expand the  **Hardware** node, and verify the number of hardware components for which information is gathered from the computers that are managed by Configuration Manager agent.

9. Close  **System Center Configuration Manager - Resource Explorer**.

10. In the details pane, right-click  **LON-BYOD1**, select  **Start**, and then click  **Resource Explorer**.

11. In  **System Center Configuration Manager - Resource Explorer**, in the navigation pane, expand the  **Hardware** node, and verify the number of hardware components for which information is gathered from the mobile devices that are managed by On-premises MDM.

12. Close  **System Center Configuration Manager - Resource Explorer**.



#### Task 4: Prepare for the end of the lab
  
- At the end of the lab, shut down the VMs. 


>  **Result**: After you finish this exercise, you will enroll modern Windows 10 devices in On-premises MDM by using user enrollment and bulk enrollment. You will also explore the differences between a PC that is managed by the Configuration Manager agent and a Windows 10 device that is managed by OMA DM.



©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  