# Lab Answer Key:  Module 6: Hybrid MDM with Configuration Manager and Intune
# Lab: Configuring hybrid MDM
  
## Exercise 1: Validating and configuring prerequisites for Configuration Manager and Intune integration
  
#### Task 1: Activate the EMS free trial
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, open  **Internet Explorer** and browse to **https://portal.azure.com**. 

2. Sign in with your Microsoft account as configured in Module 1.

3. In the navigation pane, click  **Azure Active Directory**.

4. On the directory page, under  **MANAGE**, click  **Licenses**.

5. On the  **Licenses** page, click **All products**. Notice the products that have already been purchased.

6. In the product list, click  **Try/Buy**.

7. On the  **Activate** page, on the **ENTERPRISE MOBILITY SUITE** tile, click **Free trial**.

8. In the  **Activate Enterprise Mobility Suite trial** page, click **Activate**.

9. Click the  **Show Menu** button, and then at the bottom of the menu, click **More services**.

10. In the list, type  **Intune**. The list should filter to show you only Intune related nodes. 

11. Next to  **Intune**, click the  **Star** icon to pin Intune to the menu.

12. In the menu, click  **Intune** to browse to the **Intune** page. Feel free to browse around the **Intune** features, but do not make any changes.



#### Task 2: Assign an EMS license to Adam Hobbs
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, in the navigation pane, click  **Azure Active Directory**.

2. On the directory page, under  **MANAGE**, click  **Users and groups**.

3. On the  **Users and groups** page, click **All users**.

4. In the  **All users** list, type Adam, and when Adam Hobbs appears in the filter, double-click the account.

5. On the account properties page, click  **Licenses**.

6. Click  **Assign**.

7. Under  **Assign license**, click  **Products**.

8. On the  **Products** pane, select **Enterprise Mobility + Security**, and then click  **Select**.

9. Click  **Assign**.

10. Close  **Internet Explorer**.



#### Task 3: Create an MDM collection and verify the service connection point configuration
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, on the task bar, click  **Configuration Manager Console**.

2. In the  **Configuration Manager** console, click the **Assets and Compliance** workspace.

3. In the navigation pane, click  **Users**. Verify that users have been discovered from the Adatum domain.

4. Right-click  **ADATUM\Abbi (Abbi Skinner)**, point to  **Add Selected Items**, and then click  **Add Selected Items to a New User Collection**. The  **Create User Collection Wizard** start.

5. In the  **Create User Collection Wizard**, on the  **General** page, next to **Name**, type  **Adatum MDM Users**. 

6. Next to  **Limiting collection**, click  **Browse**. The  **Select Collection** dialog box opens.

7. In the  **Select Collection** dialog box, click **All Users**, and then click  **OK**.

8. On the  **General** page, click **Next**.

9. On the  **Membership Rules** page, click **Next**.

10. On the  **Summary** page, click **Next**.

11. On the  **Completion** page, click **Close**.

12. In the user list, right-click  **ADATUM\Adam (Adam Hobbs)**, point to  **Add Selected Items**, and then click  **Add Selected Items to Existing User Collection**.

13. In the  **Select Collection** dialog box, select **Adatum MDM Users** and then click **OK**.

14. Repeat steps 12 and 13 to add  **Allan Yoo** and **Ana Cantrell** to the **Adatum MDM Users** list.

15. In the navigation pane, click  **User Collections**.

16. In the results pane, double-click  **Adatum MDM Users**. Verify the members of the collection.

17. In the  **Configuration Manager** console, click the **Administration** workspace.

18. In the navigation pane, expand  **Site Configuration** and then click **Servers and Site System Roles**.

19. In the results pane, select  **\\LON-CFG.Adatum.com**.

20. In the Preview pane, scroll down and select  **Service connection point**. This shows that the role has already been installed on  **LON-CFG** during the initial install of the site server.

21. In the ribbon, click  **Properties**. The  **Service connection point Properties** box opens. Verify that it is currently configure as **Online, persistent connection**. If the Service connection point is configured as Offline, change the selection as indicated to Online.

22. Click  **OK** to close the **Service connection point Properties** box.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have validated and configured prerequisites needed for Configuration Manager and Intune integration.


## Exercise 2: Adding the Intune subscription to Configuration Manager
  
#### Task 1: Adding the Microsoft Intune Subscription to Configuration Manager
  
1. On LON-CFG, on the task bar, click  **Configuration Manager Console**. 

2. In the  **Configuration Manager** console, click the **Administration** workspace.

3. In the navigation pane, expand  **Cloud Services**, and then click  **Microsoft Intune Subscriptions**.

4. In the ribbon, click  **Add Microsoft Intune Subscription**. The  **Create Microsoft Intune Subscription Wizard** starts.

5. In the  **Create Microsoft Intune Subscription Wizard**, on the  **Introduction** page, read the **Getting started information**, and then click  **Next**. 

6. On the  **Subscription** page, click **Sign In**. The  **Microsoft Intune credentials** page opens.

7. In the  **Email or phone** field, type **Adam@&lt;domain&gt;.onmicrosoft.com**.

8. In the  **Password** field, enter the password **Pa55w.rd**, and then click  **Sign in**.

9. On the  **Subscription** page, click **Next**.

10. On the  **General** page, next to **Collection**, click  **Browse**.

11. In the  **Select Collection** dialog box, select **Adatum MDM Users**, and then click  **OK**.

12. In the Company Name field type  **Adatum Corporation**.

13. Next to  **Color scheme for company portal**, choose a color of your choice.

14. Next to  **Configuration Manager site code**, select the drop-down arrow, and then click  **S01**.

15. On the  **General** page, click **Next**.

16. On the  **Company Contact Information** page, fill in the following, and then click **Next**:

  - IT department contact name:  **Adam Hobbs**

  - IT department phone number:  **555-555-2222**

  - IT department email address:  **Adam@adatum.com**

17. On the  **Company Logo** page, click **Next**.

18. On the  **Device Enrollment Manager** page, click **Next**.

19. On the  **Summary** page, click **Next**.

20. On the  **Completion** page, click **Close**.



#### Task 2: Configuring the Device Enrollment Manager
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, in the  **Configuration Manager** console, click the **Administration** workspace.

2. In the navigation pane, expand  **Cloud Services**, and then click  **Microsoft Intune Subscriptions**.

3. In the details pane, select  **Microsoft Intune Subscription**, and then on the ribbon click  **Properties**.

4. In the  **Microsoft Intune Subscription Properties dialog box**, click the  **Device Enrollment Manager** tab.

5. Click  **Add/Remove**. 

6. In the  **Device Enrollment Managers** box, select **ADATUM\Ana (Ana Cantrell)**, click  **Add**, and then click  **OK**.

7. On the  **Subscription** page, click **Next**.

8. Click  **OK** to close the **Microsoft Intune Subscription Properties** box.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have added the Intune subscription to Configuration Manager.


## Exercise 3: Adding terms and conditions for MDM users
  
#### Task 1: Add a Terms and Conditions policy
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, in the  **Configuration Manager** console, click the **Assets and Compliance** workspace.

2. In the navigation pane, expand  **Compliance Settings**, and then click  **Terms and Conditions**.

3. In the ribbon, click  **Create Terms and Conditions**. The  **Create Terms and Conditions Wizard** starts.

4. On the  **General** page, in the **Name** field, type **Adatum MDM Terms and Conditions**. Click  **Next**.

5. On the  **Terms** page, in the **Title** field, type **Adatum Corporation Terms and Conditions**.

6. In the  **Text for terms** field, type the following: **By Joining the Adatum Corporation's MDM infrastructure you agree to accept all policy settings as assigned by Adatum IT**. 

7. In the  **Text to explain what it means if the user accepts** field, type the following:
 **I accept the terms as outlined by Adatum IT**.

8. On the  **Terms** page, click **Next**.

9. On the  **Summary** page, click **Next**.

10. On the  **Completion** page, click **Close**.



#### Task 2: Deploy the Terms and Conditions policy
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, in the  **Configuration Manager** console, click the **Assets and Compliance** workspace.

2. In the navigation pane, expand  **Compliance Settings**, and then click  **Terms and Conditions**.

3. In the results pane, select  **Adatum MDM Terms and Conditions**.

4. In the ribbon, click  **Deploy**. The  **Deploy Terms and Conditions** dialog box opens.

5. Next to  **Collection**, click  **Browse**.

6. In the  **Select Collection** dialog box, select **Adatum MDM Users**, and then click  **OK**.

7. Click  **OK** to close the **Deploy Terms and Conditions** dialog box. Notice that the Deploy column now shows the word "True," which indicates the policy has been deployed.

8. In the preview pane, click the  **Deployments** tab. Verify that you have deployed the policy to the **Adatum MDM Users** collection.

9. Close the  **Configuration Manager** console.



#### Task 3: Prepare for the next module
  
- At the end of the lab, shut down the VMs. However, do not revert the VMs as you will need the current state for later modules.


>  **Result**: After this exercise, you should have added and deployed a Terms and Conditions policy.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  