# Module 8: On-premises mobile device management using Configuration Manager
# Lab: Managing mobile devices with an On-premises infrastructure
  
### Scenario
  
 You are the enterprise desktop administrator for A. Datum Corporation. A. Datum is using Configuration Manager for managing its PCs. You are testing the concept of managing Windows 10 modern devices without installing the management client. You decided to add On-premises MDM to the existing Configuration Manager infrastructure. You need to configure the prerequisites and then enroll Windows 10 devices by using manual enrollment and bulk enrollment. 


### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Configure PKI for On-premises MDM.

- Prepare Configuration Manager site system roles for On-premises MDM.

- Enroll Windows 10 devices for On-premises MDM

>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Intune and other cloud services referenced in the course. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup
  
 Estimated time: 60 minutes

Virtual machines:  **20703-2A-LON-DC1-B**,  **20703-2A-LON-CFG-B**,  **20703-2A-LON-BYOD1-B**,  **20703-2A-LON-BYOD2-B**, and  **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**

 User names:  **Adatum\\Administrator**,  **Admin**

 Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

 For this lab, you will use the available virtual machine environment. Before you begin the lab, you must complete the following steps:

1. On the host computer, start  **Hyper-V Manager**.

2. In Hyper-V Manager, click  **20703-2A-LON-DC1-B**, and then in the Actions pane, click  **Start**.

3. In the Actions pane, click  **Connect**. Wait until the virtual machine starts.

4. Sign in by using the following credentials:

  - User name:  **Administrator**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

  - Domain:  **Adatum**

5. Repeat steps 2 through 4 for  **20703-2A-LON-CFG-B**.

6. In Hyper-V Manager, click  **20703-2A-LON-BYOD1-B**, and then in the Actions pane, click  **Start**.

7. In the Actions pane, click  **Connect**. Wait until the virtual machine starts.

8. Sign in by using the following credentials:

  - User name:  **Admin**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

9. Repeat steps 6 through 8 for  **20703-2A-LON-BYOD2-B**.


 To access the Internet, you will also need to start  **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**. You don't need to sign in to  **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**.

 To complete this lab successfully, you must have completed  _Module 1: Lab A: Preparing for cloud integration, Module 4: Lab A: Preparing Office 365 for application deployment_, and  _Module 6: Lab A: Configuring hybrid MDM_.


## Exercise 1: Configuring PKI for On-premises MDM
  
### Scenario
  
 PKI is required and is a crucial part of On-premises MDM. A. Datum is already using enterprise CA for domain devices. As preparation for implementing On-premises MDM, you were asked to configure a CA to publish a CRL to a location that will be accessible for workgroup devices. You decided to set up a CDP that will be accessible over the http protocol. You also need to create templates that will be used for issuing certificates for the Configuration Manager site system roles.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create file share for CRL

2. Configure a web server to provide access to CRL

3. Configure certification authority for CRL publishing and publish CRL

4. Create certificate templates



#### Task 1: Create file share for CRL
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, open  **File Explorer** and then at the root of drive **C**, create a folder named  **CRLshare**.

2. Use the name  **CRLshare$** to share the folder **C:\\CRLshare**. Allow  **Full Control** share permissions and **Full control** security permissions to the **LON-DC1** computer account.



#### Task 2: Configure a web server to provide access to CRL
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, from Server Manager, open  **Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager** and add the **C:\\CRLshare** folder as a virtual directory named **CRL** to **Default Web Site**.

2. Enable  **Directory Browsing** for the **CRL** virtual directory.

3. Use  **Configuration Editor** to set the **allowDoubleEscaping** property to **True** for the **CRL** virtual directory. This property can be configured for the **system.webServer\\security\\requestFiltering** item.

4. Use  **DNS Manager** to add a new alias (CNAME) resource record named **CRL** to the **Adatum.com** zone that points to the FQDN of **LON-DC1.Adatum.com**.

5. Use  **DNS Manager** to add a new alias (CNAME) resource record named **EnterpriseEnrollment** to the **Adatum.com** zone that points to the FQDN of **LON-CFG.Adatum.com**.



#### Task 3: Configure certification authority for CRL publishing and publish CRL
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, use the  **Certification Authority** console to add the following two **CRL Distribution Points (CDP)** on the **Extensions** tab:

  -  **http://crl.Adatum.com/CRL/&lt;CaName&gt;&lt;CRLNameSuffix&gt;&lt;DeltaCRLAllowed&gt;.crl**

  -  **\\\\LON-DC1.Adatum.com\\CRLShare$\\&lt;CaName&gt;&lt;CRLNameSuffix&gt;&lt;DeltaCRLAllowed&gt;.crl**

2. For the added CDP that starts with  **http**, select following three options:

  -  **Include in CRLs. Clients use this to find Delta CRL locations**

  -  **Include in the CDP extension of issued certificates**

  -  **Include in the IDP extension of issued CRLs**

3. For the added CDP that starts with  **\\\\\**, select following two options:

  -  **Publish CRLs to this location**

  -  **Publish Delta CRLs to this Location**

4. On the  **Exit Module** tab of certification authority properties, select **Allow certificates to be published to the file system** and restart **Active Directory Certificate Services** when prompted.

5. Publish the certificate revocation list (CRL).

6. Verify that folder  **C:\\CRLdist** contains following files: **AdatumCA.crl** (the full CRL) and **AdatumCA+.crl** (the Delta CRL).



#### Task 4: Create certificate templates
  
1. On  **LON-DC1**, create a duplicate of the  **Web Server** certificate template, name it **Configuration Manager Web Server**, and select the  **Publish Certificate in Active Directory** check box. Configure the following options for the template:

  - (Subject Name tab) Subject name format:  **Common name**

  - (Security tab)  **Allow LON-CFG Enroll** permission

2. Create a duplicate of the  **Workstation Authentication** certificate template, name it **Configuration Manager DP**, and select the  **Publish Certificate in Active Directory** check box. Configure the following option for the template:

  - (Security tab)  **Allow LON-CFG Enroll** permission

3. Configure the AdatumCA certification authority to issue certificates based on the  **Configuration Manager Web Server** and **Configuration Manager DP** certificate templates.


>  **Result**: After finishing this exercise, you will have your PKI and DNS configured for On-premises MDM.


## Exercise 2: Preparing Configuration Manager for On-premises MDM
  
### Scenario
  
 After you configure PKI, you need to prepare Configuration Manager for On-premises MDM. Configuration Manager is currently using http, so you must request certificates and configure the site system roles to use https. You also need to add a Microsoft Intune subscription to Configuration Manager and configure client settings to allow enrollment of modern Windows 10 devices. Because you expect that many devices will be enrolled, you will also create an enrollment package for bulk enrollment.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Request certificates for Configuration Manager

2. Add Microsoft Intune subscription to Configuration Manager

3. Configure site system roles

4. Configure an enrollment profile for the enrollment of modern devices

5. Create an enrollment package



#### Task 1: Request certificates for Configuration Manager
  
1. ON  **LON-CFG**, open  **certlm.msc** and request certificates based on the **Configuration Manager Web Server** and **Configuration Manager DP** certificate templates.

2. Use the  **Internet Information Services (IIS) Manager** console to configure https binding for **Default Web Site** to use the **LON-CFG.Adatum.com** SSL certificate.



#### Task 2: Add Microsoft Intune subscription to Configuration Manager
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, in  **Configuration Manager Console**, add a Microsoft Intune Subscription by using following settings:

  - Sign-in user name:  **Adam@ _&lt;YourInitialsMMDDYY&gt;_outlook.onmicrosoft.com**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

  - Collection:  **All Users**

  - Company name:  **Adatum**

  - Configuration Manager site code:  **S01**

>  **Note:** If you follow the suggestion in the first module of this course, you would create the Microsoft account in the format &lt; **YourInitials&gt;-MMDDYY@outlook.com**. For example, if your name is Don Funk and you created a Microsoft account on September 18, 2017, your account should be DF-091817@outlook.com. In that case you should sign in as  **Adam@DF091817outlook.onmicrosoft.com**.
2. Enable Windows enrollment for the Microsoft Intune subscription.



#### Task 3: Configure site system roles
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, use the  **Configuration Manager** console to configure the distribution point site system role with the following settings:

  - Use HTTPS for communication with client computers and mobile devices

  -  **Allow intranet and Internet connections**

  -  **Allow mobile devices to connect to this distribution point**

2. Configure the management point site system role on  **LON-CFG** with the following settings:

  - Use HTTPS for client connections

  -  **Allow intranet and Internet connections**

  -  **Allow mobile devices and Mac computers to use this management point**

3. Add the  **Enrollment point** and **Enrollment proxy point** site system roles to **LON-CFG**.

4. Set trusted Root Certification Authority for  **S01 - Adatum Site** to the root CA certificate **\\\LON-DC1\\CertEnroll\\LON-DC1.Adatum.com_Adatum.CA.crt**.



#### Task 4: Configure an enrollment profile for the enrollment of modern devices
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, in the  **Configuration Manager** console, configure the enrollment settings in the default client settings to allow users to enroll modern devices.

2. To enroll modern devices, set a profile with the following settings:

  - Name:  **Adatum Enrollment Profile**

  - Management site Code:  **S01**



#### Task 5: Create an enrollment package
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, in the  **Configuration Manager** console, create a certificate profile with the following settings:

  - Name:  **Adatum Root CA**

  - Certificate profile type:  **Trusted CA certificate**

  - Certificate file:  **\\\\LON-DC1\\CertEnroll\\LON-DC1.Adatum.com_AdatumCA.crt**

  - Destination store:  **Computer certificate store - Root**

  - Platforms that will be provisioned with this certificate profile:  **Windows 10**

2. Create a Windows enrollment profile with the following settings:

  - Name:  **Adatum Enrollment Profile**

  - Management Authority:  **On-Premises**

  - Management site code:  **S01**

  - Enrollment proxy point that clients use:  **Intranet Only**

  - Enrollment points:  **HTTPS://LON-CFG.Adatum.com:443/EnrollmentServer/Discovery.svc**

  - Trusted root certificate for enrollment:  **Adatum Root CA**

3. Export the Windows enrollment profile named  **Adatum Enrollment Profile** to the **E:\\EnrollDevice** package file.

4. Verify that drive  **E** on **LON-CFG** contains the **EnrollDevice.ppkg** and **EnrollDevice.cat** files.


>  **Result**: At the completion of this exercise, you will have successfully configured the Configuration Manager site system roles for On-premises MDM.


## Exercise 3: Enrolling Windows 10 devices for On-premises MDM
  
### Scenario
  
 After you prepare the infrastructure and enrollment package for On-premises MDM, you want to test it and enroll two Windows 10 devices in On-premises MDM. You want to enroll the first device by connecting it to a work or school account, and then perform user enrollment. For the second device, you plan to use bulk enrollment, for which you will run the enrollment package on the device. After you enroll both devices, you want to explore the differences between On-premises MDM-managed and Configuration Manager agent-managed devices.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Perform user enrollment of a Windows 10 device

2. Perform bulk enrollment by using an enrollment package

3. Verify On-premises MDM-managed devices

4. Prepare for the end of the lab



#### Task 1: Perform user enrollment of a Windows 10 device
  
1. On  **LON-BYOD1**, start  **certlm.msc** and then use the **Certificates** console to add **\\\\LON-DC1\\CertEnroll\\LON-DC1.Adatum.com_AdatumCA.crt** certificate to **Trusted Root Certification Authorities** for the computer account. Use **Adatum\\Administrator** as the user name and **Pa55w.rd** as the password to connect to **LON-DC1**.

2. Connect  **Abbi@ _&lt;YourInitialsMMDDYY&gt;_outlook.onmicrosoft.com** as the work or school account to your Windows account, and use **Pa55w.rd** as Abbi's password.
>  **Note:** If you followed the suggestion in the first module, you created a Microsoft account in the format &lt; **YourInitials&gt;-MMDDYY@outlook.com**. For example, if your name is Don Funk and you created Microsoft account on September 18, 2017, your account should be DF-091817@outlook.com. In that case, you should sign in as  **Abbi@DF091817outlook.onmicrosoft.com**.
3. Connect  **LON-BYOD1** to **Adatum MDM** as **Abbi@adatum.com**. Use  **Pa55w.ord** as her password, and select to remember sign-in information.

4. Verify that your Windows account is connected to the  **Abbi@ _&lt;YourInitialsMMDDYY&gt;_outlook.onmicrosoft.com** work or school account, that the **LON-BYOD1** device is connected to **Adatum MDM**, and that the last device sync was successful.



#### Task 2: Perform bulk enrollment by using an enrollment package
  
1. On  **LON-BYOD2**, create a folder named  **Enrollment** on drive **C**.

2. Copy the files named  **EnrollDevice.cat**, and  **EnrollDevice.ppkg** from **\\\LON-CFG\\E$** to **C:\\Enrollment**. Connect to  **LON-CFG** with the user name **Adatum\Administrator**, and use  **Pa55w.rd** as the password.

3. Run the  **C:\\Enrollment\\EnrollDevice.ppkg** file, and confirm that you trust the package source.

4. Verify that the device is connected to  **Adatum MDM** and that the last device sync was successful.



#### Task 3: Verify On-premises MDM-managed devices
  
1. On  **LON-CFG**, use the  **Configuration Manager** console to verify that the devices named **LON-BYOD1** and **LON-BYOD2** are present in Configuration Manager. Also verify that a different icon is used for these two devices than for other devices.

2. Verify that the  **LON-BYOD1** client type is set to **Mobile**, that the primary user for that device is  **ADATUM\\Abbi**, and that the affinity type for that device is set to  **Mobile Device Enrollment Defined**.
>  **Note:** Note that you connected Abbi with **LON-BYOD1** device in the **Settings** app.
3. Verify that  **LON-BYOD2** does not have primary user defined.
>  **Note:** Remember that you didn't connect any account in Settings app on **LON-BYOD2**.
4. In  **Resource Explorer** for **LON-CFG**, verify the number of hardware components for which information is gathered from the computer.
>  **Note:** Be aware that **LON-CFG** is managed by the installed Configuration Manager agent.
5. In  **Resource Explorer** for **LON-BYOD1**, verify the number of hardware components for which information is gathered from the mobile device.
>  **Note:** Be aware that **LON-BYOD1** is managed by the MDM agent that is built into Windows 10.


#### Task 4: Prepare for the end of the lab
  
- At the end of the lab, shut down the VMs. 


>  **Result**: After you finish this exercise, you will enroll modern Windows 10 devices in On-premises MDM by using user enrollment and bulk enrollment. You will also explore the differences between a PC that is managed by the Configuration Manager agent and a Windows 10 device that is managed by OMA DM.



## 
  
**Question** 
Why do you need to add a CDP that can be accessed over http?

**Question** 
Why do you need to import the AdatumCA root CA certificate into the trusted root CAs store on  **LON-BYOD1-B** to be able to enroll it for On-premises MDM? Why did you not need to import the root CA certificate on **LON-BYOD2-B**?

**Question** 
How can you differentiate devices that are managed by On-premises MDM from devices that are managed by the Configuration Manager agent in the Configuration Manager console? 



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  